# Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W222)

|  | **This article has multiple issues.** Please help **improve it** or discuss these issues on the **talk page**. *(Learn how and when to remove these messages)*    |  | This article **contains promotional content**. Please help improve it by removing promotional language and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic text written from a neutral point of view. *(December 2023)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* | | --- | --- |     |  | This article **may need to be rewritten** to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The talk page may contain suggestions. *(December 2023)* | | --- | --- |     |  | This article **may require copy editing for grammar, style, cohesion, tone, or spelling**. You can assist by editing it. *(December 2023)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* | | --- | --- |     *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

|  | This article **contains promotional content**. Please help improve it by removing promotional language and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic text written from a neutral point of view. *(December 2023)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- | --- |

|  | This article **may need to be rewritten** to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The talk page may contain suggestions. *(December 2023)* |
| --- | --- |

|  | This article **may require copy editing for grammar, style, cohesion, tone, or spelling**. You can assist by editing it. *(December 2023)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- | --- |

| Mercedes-Benz S (W222\) | |
| --- | --- |
|  | |
| Overview | |
| Manufacturer | Daimler AG |
| Production | 12 June 2013– September 2020 |
| Model years | 2014–2020 |
| Assembly | * Germany: Sindelfingen * India: Pune (Mercedes Benz India) * Malaysia: Pekan (HICOM) * Indonesia: Bogor (MBI) * Thailand: Samut Prakan (TAAP) * Vietnam: Ho Chi Minh City (MBV) |
| Designer | Il-hun YoonRobert Lešnik (2009\) |
| Body and chassis | |
| Class | Full-size luxury car (F) |
| Body style | 4-door sedan |
| Layout | * Front-engine, rear-wheel-drive * Front-engine, all-wheel-drive (4MATIC) |
| Platform | W221/W222 |
| Related | Mercedes-Benz S-Class (C217\) |
| Powertrain | |
| Engine | * **Petrol engines:** * 2\.0 L *M264* turbo I4 (China) * 3\.0 L *M256* turbo I6 * 3\.0 L *M276* twin-turbo V6 * 3\.5 L *M276* V6 \+ electric motor * 4\.7 L *M278* twin-turbo V8 * 3\.0 L *M276* twin-turbo V6 Plug-in Hybrid \+ electric motor * 4\.0 L *M176/M177* twin-turbo V8 * 5\.5 L *M157* twin-turbo V8 * 6\.0 L *M277/279* twin-turbo V12 * **Diesel engines:** * 2\.2 L *OM651* twin turbo I4 Bluetec Hybrid * 2\.9 L *OM656* twin-turbo I6 * 3\.0 L *OM642* turbo V6 |
| Transmission | 7-speed *7G-Tronic* automatic9-speed *9G-Tronic* automatic |
| Hybrid drivetrain | FHEV (Parallel Hybrid) (S400 Hybrid, S300 Bluetec Hybrid)Mild Hybrid (EQ Boost)Plug-in hybrid (S 500 e / S 560 e) |
| Dimensions | |
| Wheelbase | * SWB: 3,035 mm (119\.5 in) * LWB: 3,165 mm (124\.6 in) * Maybach: 3,365 mm (132\.5 in) * Pullman: 4,418 mm (173\.9 in) |
| Length | * SWB: 5,146 mm (202\.6 in) * LWB: 5,296 mm (208\.5 in) * Maybach: 5,453 mm (214\.7 in) * Pullman: 6,499 mm (255\.9 in) |
| Width | 1,899 mm (74\.8 in) |
| Height | * 1,496 mm (58\.9 in) * 1,598 mm (62\.9 in) (Pullman) |
| Curb weight | * 1,910–2,275 kg (4,210–5,020 lb) * 2,295–2,360 kg (5,060–5,200 lb) (Mercedes-Maybach) |
| Chronology | |
| Predecessor | * Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W221\) * Maybach 57 and 62 (for Mercedes-Maybach S-Class, but indirect) |
| Successor | Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W223\) |

* Germany: Sindelfingen
* India: Pune (Mercedes Benz India)
* Malaysia: Pekan (HICOM)
* Indonesia: Bogor (MBI)
* Thailand: Samut Prakan (TAAP)
* Vietnam: Ho Chi Minh City (MBV)

* Front-engine, rear-wheel-drive
* Front-engine, all-wheel-drive (4MATIC)

* **Petrol engines:**
* 2\.0 L *M264* turbo I4 (China)
* 3\.0 L *M256* turbo I6
* 3\.0 L *M276* twin-turbo V6
* 3\.5 L *M276* V6 \+ electric motor
* 4\.7 L *M278* twin-turbo V8
* 3\.0 L *M276* twin-turbo V6 Plug-in Hybrid \+ electric motor
* 4\.0 L *M176/M177* twin-turbo V8
* 5\.5 L *M157* twin-turbo V8
* 6\.0 L *M277/279* twin-turbo V12
* **Diesel engines:**
* 2\.2 L *OM651* twin turbo I4 Bluetec Hybrid
* 2\.9 L *OM656* twin-turbo I6
* 3\.0 L *OM642* turbo V6

* SWB: 3,035 mm (119\.5 in)
* LWB: 3,165 mm (124\.6 in)
* Maybach: 3,365 mm (132\.5 in)
* Pullman: 4,418 mm (173\.9 in)

* SWB: 5,146 mm (202\.6 in)
* LWB: 5,296 mm (208\.5 in)
* Maybach: 5,453 mm (214\.7 in)
* Pullman: 6,499 mm (255\.9 in)

* 1,496 mm (58\.9 in)
* 1,598 mm (62\.9 in) (Pullman)

* 1,910–2,275 kg (4,210–5,020 lb)
* 2,295–2,360 kg (5,060–5,200 lb) (Mercedes-Maybach)

* Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W221\)
* Maybach 57 and 62 (for Mercedes-Maybach S-Class, but indirect)

The **Mercedes-Benz W222** is the sixth generation of the Mercedes Benz S-Class produced from 2013 to 2020, serving as the successor to the W221 S-Class and predecessor to the W223 S-Class. The W222 was designed in 2009 by Korean designer Il-hun Yoon, who drew inspiration from the Mercedes-Benz F700 concept car. The exterior design was developed by a team under the direction of the Slovenian car designer Robert Lešnik. The W222 has a similar design theme to the C-Class (W205\) and E-Class (W213\).

In Europe, sales of the S400 Hybrid, S350 BlueTEC, S350 BlueTEC Hybrid, and S500 began in September 2013, and sales of the S550 in the United States also began on that same month. The four-wheel drive *(4Matic)* model went on sale in November, and additional models, including V12 models and those from AMG, were released in 2014\.

The W222 S-Class debuted on 15 May 2013, in Hamburg, Germany and entered production in Sindelfingen, Germany in June 2013\.

Production of the W222 ended in September 2020 with the introduction of its successor, the S-Class (W223\). 

Suspension
----------

Mercedes' hydropneumatic, active suspension, *Active Body Control* has been updated with a system dubbed *Magic Body Control* (MBC), which is fitted with a road-sensing system ("Road surface scan") that pre-scans the road for uneven surfaces, potholes, and bumps. Using a stereo camera, the system scans the road surface up to 15 meters ahead of the vehicle at speeds up to 130 km/h (81 mph), and it adjusts the shock damping at each wheel to account for imperfections in the road. As of 2017, MBC is not available on any of the 4Matic models.

Models
------

The vehicle was unveiled at Airbus in Hamburg-Finkewerder, followed by Shanghai's Mercedes-Benz Arena, and the 2013 Osaka Motor Show (S 400 HYBRID). The new S-Class became available to order in May 2013, with official arrival at Mercedes-Benz dealers on 20 July 2013\. 

Early models included S 400 Hybrid, S 500, S 350 BlueTEC, followed by the S 300 BlueTEC Hybrid in early 2014\.

US models went on sale for the 2014 model year; the lineup initially included only the long-wheelbase "S550" (S500 in Europe) in September 2013, and the long-wheelbase S 550 4Matic, which arrived in November 2013\. *Auto Bild* measured the LWB as the quietest among cars like the Rolls-Royce Ghost and the Bentley Flying Spur in 2014\.

European models went on sale at the end of July 2013, followed by China at the end of September 2013, and the USA in October 2013\.

Delivery in Japan began in November 2013\. Early models include the S 400 Hybrid (right-hand-drive), S 400 Hybrid Exclusive (right steering), S 550 LWB (left/right steering), S 63 AMG LWB (right steering), S 63 AMG 4Matic LWB (left-hand-drive). The S 300 BlueTEC HYBRID, S 350 BlueTEC 4MATIC, S 600, and S 65 AMG Saloon arrived at dealer showrooms in March 2014\.

There is also the "S500 Intelligent Drive", which is a self-driving version of the S 500 sedan, using sensors that are also available in the production version of the S-Class. The car uses the sensors to capture the massive amounts of data in traffic. The vehicle was officially unveiled at the 2013 Frankfurt Motor Show.

### S 63 AMG, S 63 AMG 4MATIC (2013–2020\)

Available in short (S 63 AMG only) and long wheelbases, the S 63 AMG is a version of the S-Class saloon with the Mercedes-Benz M157 V8 engine rated at 430 kW; 577 hp (585 PS) at 5,500 rpm and 900 N⋅m (664 lb⋅ft) at 2,250-3,750 rpm. Features include 10-spoke or Siena 5 twin spokes, AMG forged light-alloy wheels (optional titanium grey and polished wheels), lightweight 78 Ah lithium-ion battery (from the SLS AMG Coupé Black Series), a weight-optimised AMG high-performance composite brake system, aluminium body panels, a spare wheel recess made of carbon fibre, AMG sports exhaust system, AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT 7-speed sports transmission, ESP Curve Dynamic Assist, 2 suspension types (AMG RIDE CONTROL sports suspension, AIRMATIC with the Adaptive Damping System ADS PLUS in S 63 AMG 4Matic; "Magic Body Control" with Crosswind stabilization in S 63 AMG with rear-wheel drive), front apron with three large air dams with grille in high-gloss black, flics in high-gloss black on the side air intakes, side sill panels with three-dimensional inserts in silver chrome, and an AMG sports steering wheel. Other features include AMG door sill panels, AMG floor mats, AMG sports pedals in brushed stainless steel with rubber studs, Ambient lighting, Attention Assist, Collision Prevention Assist, COMAND Online, 10 loudspeakers with Frontbass, Metallic paintwork, Pre-Safe Plus, Tyre pressure loss warning system, LED High-Performance headlamps, and DISTRONIC PLUS (Driving Assistance package Plus, Night View Assist Plus).\[*citation needed*]

AMG Performance Studio options include an AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre package, AMG ceramic high-performance composite brake system, AMG carbon-fibre engine cover, AMG performance steering wheel in black Nappa leather / DINAMICA, AMG trim in carbon fibre/black piano lacquer, and red brake callipers.\[*citation needed*]

Other options include Air-Balance package, Burmester surround sound system, Burmester high-end 3D surround sound system, Business Telephony in the rear, Chauffeur package, designo appointments packages, Executive seat, Exclusive package, First-Class rear suite, Folding tables in the rear, LED Intelligent Light System, Seat Comfort package including ENERGIZING massage function, and Warmth Comfort package.\[*citation needed*]

The US model of the S 63 AMG 4Matic included an increased top speed of 300 km/h (186 mph), and was set to go on sale in November 2013\.

### S 65 AMG (2014–2019\)

The S 65 AMG is a model of the long wheelbase S-Class sedan that contains an AMG 6\.0-litre V12 biturbo engine that delivers 463 kW (621 hp; 630 PS) at 4,800 rpm and 1,000 N⋅m (738 lb⋅ft) of torque between 2,300-4,300 rpm. This powerhouse is complemented by a seven-speed automatic transmission and a 78 Ah lithium-ion battery.

Key features include:

1\. Engine and Performance:

* Exclusive carbon-fibre/aluminium engine cover.

* AMG sports suspension with MAGIC BODY CONTROL and Crosswind stabilization.

* ESP Dynamic Cornering Assist.

* Electromechanical AMG speed-sensitive sports steering with variable steering ratio.

2\. Wheels and Brakes:

* Standard 20-inch ceramic high-gloss polished AMG 16-spoke light-alloy wheels.

* Optional 10-spoke forged wheels in polished titanium grey or matt black.

* 5-twin-spoke forged wheels in titanium grey.

* Optional AMG ceramic high-performance composite braking system with 420 mm front brake discs.

3\. Exterior Design:

* V12 radiator grille with six twin louvres in high-gloss chrome.

* Front apron with three large cooling air intakes, grilles, and flics (air deflectors) in high-gloss chrome.

* Side sill panels and rear diffuser insert in high-gloss chrome (optional in high-gloss black).

* AMG sports exhaust system with two chrome-plated separate twin tailpipes.

4\. Interior Luxury:

* Exclusive nappa leather upholstery with a diamond-pattern design.

* Perforated leather on AMG sports seats (no perforations where there is contrasting topstitching).

* Nappa leather roof liner, dashboard, and door center panels in a diamond-pattern design.

* Leather-clad roof grab handles and additional wood trim.

* AMG stainless-steel door sill panels illuminated in white.

* Five color schemes for Exclusive nappa leather upholstery: black, satin beige/espresso brown, nut brown/black, porcelain/black, and crystal grey/seashell grey.

5\. Newly contoured seat cushions and backrests.

* 2-spoke AMG sports steering wheel with nappa leather and perforated leather in the grip area.

* Aluminum shift paddles.

* Analogue clock in an exclusive IWC design with three-dimensional, milled metal hands and genuine metal appliqués on the dial.

* Chrome-plated door pins with AMG logo.

* AMG instrument cluster with two animated round dials on a TFT color display, including a 360 km/h (224 mph) scale speedometer and AMG start-up display.

* AMG main menu with digital speedometer and a permanent gear display in the upper section.

* Head-up display.

* 6\.5 x 4\.5 cm touchpad integrated into the handrest with a cover for the keypad.

AMG Performance Studio options include an AMG Exterior Carbon-Fibre package, AMG ceramic high-performance composite braking system, AMG performance steering wheel in Nappa leather/DINAMICA (black), AMG trim in carbon-fibre/black piano lacquer, and red brake callipers.

Other options include a 360° camera, Business Telephony in the rear, designo appointments packages, an executive seat, a first-class rear suite, an individual entertainment system in the rear, folding tables in the rear, and a warmth comfort package.

The vehicle was unveiled at the 2013 Los Angeles International Auto Show and the 2013 Tokyo Motor Show, followed by the 2013 Osaka Motor Show.

The vehicle was set to go on sale in March 2014\.

On 24 February 2019, Mercedes-Benz announced the S 65 Final Edition with a limited run of 130 units, and unveiled it at the Geneva Auto Salon on 2 March 2019\. This will end the era of the V12 engine within AMG; however, the M279 V12 engine could continue in the Mercedes-Benz S 600 as well as the Mercedes-Maybach S 650 (S 680 for the Chinese market) and possibly the GLS 680 for the foreseeable future. The Final Edition is finished in Obsidian Black metallic paint, with bronze highlights in the front and rear bumpers, underneath the doors, as well as bronze-coloured 20-inch alloy wheels. The special AMG emblems are affixed to the C-pillars. The interior is trimmed in black Exclusive Nappa leather, with special carbon ornamental elements, and bronze-stitching black foot mats. Production ended in November 2019\.

### S 500 e (2014–2017\)

The S 550 e is a plug-in hybrid version of the long wheelbase S-Class sedan with a 3\.0-litre V6 twin-turbo engine rated at 245 kW; 328 hp (333 PS) and 480 N⋅m (354 lb⋅ft), electric motor rated at 80 kW; 108 hp (109 PS) and 340 N⋅m (251 lb⋅ft), externally rechargeable battery, 4 hybrid operating modes (HYBRID, E‑MODE, E-SAVE, and CHARGE), second-generation recuperative braking system, haptic accelerator pedal, pre-entry climate control of the interior, Intelligent HYBRID with (dis)charging management based on COMAND Online navigation data, and a 8\.7kWh battery pack.

The all electric range is about 30 km (19 mi) under the New European Driving Cycle. Under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) tests, the S 500 e has an all-electric range of 14 mi (23 km), with some gasoline consumption (0\.1 gal/100 mi), so the actual all-electric range is rated between 0 to 12 mi (0 to 19 km).

The EPA, under its five-cycle tests, rated the 2015 model year S 500 e energy consumption in all-electric mode at 59 kWh per 100 miles, which translates into a combined city/highway fuel economy of 58 miles per gallon gasoline equivalent (MPG-e) (4\.1 L/100 km; 70 mpg−imp gasoline equivalent). When powered only by the gasoline engine, EPA's official combined city/highway fuel economy is 26 mpg‑US (9\.0 L/100 km; 31 mpg‑imp).

The production vehicle was unveiled in Toronto in 2013, followed by the 2013 Frankfurt Motor Show. Deliveries began in September 2014 in Europe, starting at a price of €108,945 (\~US$146,000). The U.S. launch was slated for early 2015\. A total of 17 units were registered in Germany as of September 2014\[update]. According to JATO Dynamics, a total of 38 units were registered in Europe through September 2014\.

### S 600

The S 600 is a version of the long-wheelbase S-Class sedan with a 6\.0-litre V12 biturbo engine rated at 390 kW; 523 hp (530 PS) and 830 N⋅m (612 lb⋅ft) at 1,900 rpm. Features include ECO start/stop function, optional touchpad, optional head-up display, Collision Prevention Assist Plus, and optional electric windscreen heating. The vehicle was unveiled at the 2014 North American International Auto Show. The vehicle went on sale in March 2014\.

### Mercedes-Maybach

In 2015, Mercedes brought back the Maybach name as a sub-brand of the Mercedes lineup. The first model produced was the Mercedes-Maybach S-Class, designed to compete against the Bentley Mulsanne and Rolls-Royce Phantom VIII. At 5,453 mm (214\.7 in) long with a wheelbase of 3,365 mm (132\.5 in), the new model is approximately 20 cm (7\.9 in) greater in both dimensions compared to the long-wheelbase S-Class models.

The Mercedes-Maybach is available in S 500 and S 600 models (the US received Mercedes-Maybach S 550 4MATIC and S 600 models, with the S 550 having the same 4\.7L engine as the S 500 Mercedes-Maybach elsewhere), with 4MATIC optional with the V8 engine and V12 for the latter. Mercedes also claims that the S Class is the world's quietest production car. The basic car has colour options and the option of rear bench seats or 2 reclining rear seats. Options include air-conditioned, heated and massaging seats; heated armrests; a system to pump agarwood scented ionised air around the cabin; First class suite for the rear cabin and a 24-speaker, 1,540 watt Burmester High-End 3D surround sound system.

Assembly of the Maybach S 500 started in Pune, India in September 2015 and it is the second country to produce a Maybach.

In 2017, the facelift S 600 was discontinued, while the S 650 was introduced (with the engine of the former S 65 AMG).

The Mercedes-Maybach S 600 and S 650 were also available in a Pullman version, a chauffeur-driven sedan that includes a partition-separated rear passenger compartment with two sets of paired-facing seats. This version is equipped with the V12 dual-turbocharger gasoline engine, the seven-speed automatic transmission, and rear-wheel drive. The same vehicle is additionally available as an armoured version, known as the Pullman Guard.

At the 2017 Shanghai Motor Show, a new Chinese-only Mercedes-Maybach S 680 was introduced for the 2018 model year and onward. The number 8 is very auspicious in China, and Asian countries is closely associated with luck and wealth, hence Mercedes' decision to name it as they did. The S 680 is essentially identical to the S 650 where equipment is concerned.

* Mercedes-Maybach S 650 Pullman
* Mercedes-Maybach S 600 Pullman

Specifications
--------------

### Engines (2013–2017\)

| Model | Years | Configuration | Displacement | Power | Torque | 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) | Top Speed (km/h) | Fuel Consumption/Efficiency (EU-Norm combined) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Petrol engines | | | | | | | | |
| S 320 (China) | 2014–2017 | V6 (M 276 DE 30 AL) | 2,996 cc (182\.8 cu in) | 200 kW (272 PS; 268 bhp) at 5,000 rpm | 400 N⋅m (295 lb⋅ft) at 1,300-4,500 rpm | N.A. | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 8\.0 L/100 km (29 mpg‑US) |
| S 400 4MATIC | 2015–2017 | V6 biturbo (M 276 DE 30 AL) | 2,996 cc (182\.8 cu in) | 245 kW (333 PS; 329 bhp) at 5,250 rpm | 480 N⋅m (354 lb⋅ft) at 1,600-4,000 | 6\.1 seconds | 8\.4 L/100 km (28 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 400 4MATIC | 6\.3 seconds | N.A. |
| S 500, S 550 (US) | 2013–2017 | V8 biturbo (M 278 DE 46 AL) | 4,663 cc (284\.6 cu in) | 335 kW (455 PS; 449 bhp) at 5,250 | 700 N⋅m (516 lb⋅ft) at 1,800-3,500 | 4\.8 seconds | 8\.6–9\.1 L/100 km (27–26 mpg‑US) |
| S 500 4MATICS 550 4MATIC (US) | 4\.8 seconds | 9\.1 L/100 km (26 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 500 | 2015–2017 | 5\.0 seconds | 8\.6 L/100 km (27 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 500 4MATIC | 9\.4 L/100 km (25 mpg‑US) |
| S 600 | 2014–2017 | V12 biturbo (M 277 E 60 AL) | 5,980 cc (365 cu in) | 390 kW (530 PS; 523 bhp) at 4,900–5300 | 830 N⋅m (612 lb⋅ft) at 1,900–4,000 | 4\.6 seconds | 11\.1–11\.3 L/100 km (21\.2–20\.8 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 600 | 2014–2017 | 5\.0 seconds | 11\.7 L/100 km (20\.1 mpg‑US) |
| S 63 AMG | 2013–2017 | V8 biturbo (M157 DE 55 AL) | 5,461 cc (333\.3 cu in) | 430 kW (585 PS; 577 bhp) at 5,500 | 900 N⋅m (664 lb⋅ft) at 2,250–3,750 | 4\.4 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph), 300 km/h (186 mph)\* | 10\.1 L/100 km (23 mpg‑US) |
| S 63 AMG 4MATIC | 2013–2017 | 4\.0 seconds | 10\.3 L/100 km (23 mpg‑US) |
| S 65 AMG | 2014–2017 | V12 biturbo (M 279 E 60 AL) | 5,980 cc (365 cu in) | 463 kW (630 PS; 621 bhp) at 4,800 | 1,000 N⋅m (738 lb⋅ft) at 2,300–4,300 | 4\.2 seconds | 11\.9 L/100 km (19\.8 mpg‑US) |
| Petrol engines \+ hybrid | | | | | | | | |
| S 400h\*\* | 2013–2017 | V6 (M 276 DE 35\) | 3,498 cc (213\.5 cu in) | 225 kW (306 PS; 302 bhp) at 6500 (Engine) / 20 kW (27 PS; 27 bhp) (Electric) | 370 N⋅m (273 lb⋅ft) at 3,500-5,250 (Engine) / 250 N⋅m (184 lb⋅ft) (Electric) | 6\.0 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 6\.3 L/100 km (37 mpg‑US) |
| S 500e\*\* | 2014–2017 | V6 (M 276 DE 30 AL) | 2,996 cc (182\.8 cu in) | 245 kW (333 PS; 329 bhp) at 5,250 (Engine) / 20 kW (27 PS; 27 bhp) (Electric) | 480 N⋅m (354 lb⋅ft) at 1,600-4,000 (Engine) / 340 N⋅m (251 lb⋅ft) (Electric) | 5\.2 seconds | 2\.8 L/100 km (84 mpg‑US) |
| Diesel engines | | | | | | | | |
| S 350d\*\* | 2013–2017 | V6 turbo (OM 642 LS DE 30 LA) | 2,987 cc (182\.3 cu in) | 190 kW (258 PS; 255 bhp) at 3,600 | 620 N⋅m (457 lb⋅ft) at 1,600–2,400 | 6\.8 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 5\.5–6\.0 L/100 km (43–39 mpg‑US) |
| S 350d 4MATIC\*\* | 2014–2017 | 5\.9–6\.4 L/100 km (40–37 mpg‑US) |
| Diesel engines \+ hybrid | | | | | | | | |
| S 300h\*\* | 2014–2017 | Inline 4 biturbo (OM 651 DE 22 LA) | 2,148 cc (131\.1 cu in) | 150 kW (204 PS; 201 bhp) at 4,200 (Engine) / 20 kW (27 PS; 27 bhp) (Electric) | 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) at 1,600–1,800 (Engine) / 250 N⋅m (184 lb⋅ft) (Electric) | 7\.6 seconds |  |  |

* With optional extra-cost AMG Driver Package
* Badged as S 400 HYBRID, S 500 PLUG-IN HYBRID, S 350 BlueTEC, S 350 BlueTEC 4MATIC and S 300 BlueTEC HYBRID before 2015

### Transmission (2013–2017\)

| Model | Years | Types |
| --- | --- | --- |
| S 320 | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 400 | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 400 4MATIC | 2015–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 400h | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| Maybach S 400 4MATIC | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 500 | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS, 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC for S 500 Coupé from January 2015 |
| S 500 4MATIC | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS, 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC for S 500 Coupé from January 2015 |
| S 500 e PLUG-IN HYBRID | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| Maybach S 500 | 2014–2017 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| Maybach S 500 4MATIC | 2014–2017 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 600 | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC Plus |
| Maybach S 600 | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 63 AMG | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT |
| S 63 AMG 4Matic | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT |
| S 65 AMG | 2013–2019 | 7-speed automatic AMG SPEEDSHIFT Plus 7G-TRONIC |
| S 300h/ S 300 BlueTEC HYBRID | 2014–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 350d/ S 350 BlueTEC | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS, 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC for S 350d from January 2015 |
| S 350d 4MATIC/ S 350 BlueTEC 4MATIC | 2013–2017 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS, 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC for S 350d from January 2015 |

W222 facelift (2017–2020\)
--------------------------

A mid-cycle refresh was unveiled in April 2017 and entered production on 3 July 2017 for the 2018 model year. The refresh introduces the new 48-volt integrated starter/alternator, ENERGIZING Comfort Control, and updated autonomous driving technologies. The grille is updated to differentiate between six and eight-cylinder engine versions and long wheelbase and V12 versions. The headlamps and taillamps are also revised with new enhanced LED technology.

The new range of six-cylinder inline petrol and diesel engines are offered with electrification (20 kilowatts/22 horsepower). This marks the return of six-cylinder inline engines to the S-Class since the last one was offered in 2005\. The engine is 2,999 cc (3\.0 L) for both petrol and 2,927 cc (2\.9 L) diesel engines. The sole gas V6 engine is in the S 560 e with a plug-in hybrid system. The four-cylinder inline engine with a hybrid system (S 300 h) was removed from the S-Class model range. Additionally, the old 4\.7-litre V8 petrol engine is replaced by the new AMG-engineered 4\.0-litre biturbo V8, consolidating the V8 engine range to one size now. 2019 marks the final year of the S 65 AMG with 130 units to be finished in obsidian black metallic paint with bronze highlights on the body and alloy wheels. However, the 6\.0-litre V12 AMG carries on in the Maybach S 650 after the production of the S 65 AMG ended. Only the S 600 continues unchanged.

Inline 6 and V8 engines are now paired with the 9-speed 9G-TRONIC automatic transmission (AMG Speedshift MCT for S 63 AMG 4MATIC\+) while V12 engines continue to use the 7G-TRONIC PLUS transmission.

The S 63 AMG 4MATIC\+ became the sole choice for the V8 version of the S-Class from AMG, eliminating the previous rear-wheel-drive version. 

### Engines (2017–2020\)

| Model | Years | Configuration | Displacement | Power | Torque | 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) | Top Speed | Fuel Consumption/Efficiency(EU-Norm combined) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Petrol Engines | | | | | | | | |
| S 320 (China) | 2017–2020 | I4 turbocharger (M264 E20 DEH LA) | 1,991 cc (121\.5 cu in) | 220 kW (299 PS; 295 hp) | 400 N⋅m (295 lb⋅ft) | 6\.6 seconds |  | |
| S 450 (non-EU) | 2018– 2020 | V6 turbo (M 276 DE 30 A) | 2,996 cc (182\.8 cu in) | 270 kW (367 PS; 362 hp) | 500 N⋅m (369 lbf⋅ft) | 5\.3 seconds |
| S 450 4MATIC (non-EU) | 5\.4 seconds |
| S 450 (EU) | 2017–2020 | Inline 6 turbo (M 256 E30 DEH LA GR) \+ Electric Motor | 2,999 cc (183\.0 cu in) | 270 kW (367 PS; 362 hp) at 5,500-6,100 rpm (Engine) / 16 kW (22 PS; 21 hp) (Electric) | 5\.1 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 7\.3–7\.5 L/100 km (32–31 mpg‑US) |
| S 450 4MATIC (EU) | 4\.9 seconds | 8\.1–8\.3 L/100 km (29–28 mpg‑US) |
| S 500 | Inline 6 turbo (M 256 E30 DEH LA G) \+ Electric Motor | 320 kW (435 PS; 429 hp) at 5,900-6,100 rpm (Engine) / 16 kW (22 PS; 21 hp) (Electric) | 520 N⋅m (384 lbf⋅ft) | 4\.8 seconds | 7\.3–7\.5 L/100 km (32–31 mpg‑US) |
| S 560 | V8 biturbo (M176 DE 40 AL) | 3,982 cc (243\.0 cu in) | 345 kW (469 PS; 463 hp) | 700 N⋅m (516 lbf⋅ft) | 4\.7 seconds | 7\.9–8\.2 L/100 km (30–29 mpg‑US) |
| S 560 4MATIC | 4\.6 seconds | 8\.5–8\.8 L/100 km (28–27 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 560 | 4\.9 seconds | 8\.8 L/100 km (27 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 560 4MATIC | 9\.3 L/100 km (25 mpg‑US) |
| S 600 | V12 biturbo (M 277 E 60 AL) | 5,980 cc (365 cu in) | 390 kW (530 PS; 523 hp) | 830 N⋅m (612 lbf⋅ft) | 4\.6 seconds | 11\.1–11\.3 L/100 km (21\.2–20\.8 mpg‑US) |
| S 63 AMG 4MATIC\+ | V8 biturbo (M177 DE 40 AL) | 3,982 cc (243\.0 cu in) | 450 kW (612 PS; 603 hp) | 900 N⋅m (664 lbf⋅ft) | 3\.5 seconds | 8\.9 L/100 km (26 mpg‑US) |
| S 65 AMG | 2017–August 2019 | V12 biturbo (M 279 E 60 AL) | 5,980 cc (365 cu in) | 463 kW (630 PS; 621 hp) | 1,000 N⋅m (738 lbf⋅ft) | 4\.2 seconds | 7\.3–7\.5 L/100 km (32–31 mpg‑US) |
| Maybach S 650Maybach S 680 (China) | 2017–2020 | 463 kW (630 PS; 621 hp) | 1,000 N⋅m (738 lbf⋅ft) | 4\.7 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 12\.7 L/100 km (18\.5 mpg‑US) |
| Diesel engines | | | | | | | | |
| S 350 d | 2017–2020 | Inline 6 turbo (OM 656 DE29T LA) | 2,927 cc (178\.6 cu in) | 210 kW (286 PS; 282 hp) | 600 N⋅m (443 lbf⋅ft) | 6\.0 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 5\.1–5\.4 L/100 km (46–44 mpg‑US) |
| S 350 d 4MATIC | 5\.8 seconds | 5\.5–5\.7 L/100 km (43–41 mpg‑US) |
| S 400 d | Inline 6 turbo (OM 656 DE29TT LA) | 250 kW (340 PS; 335 hp) | 5\.4 seconds | 5\.2–5\.4 L/100 km (45–44 mpg‑US) |
| S 400 d 4MATIC | 5\.2 seconds | 5\.6–5\.7 L/100 km (42–41 mpg‑US) |
| Plug-in Hybrid engines | | | | | | | | |
| S 560 e | 2018–2020 | V6 turbo (M 276 DE 30 A) \+ Electric Motor | 2,999 cc (183\.0 cu in) | 270 kW (367 PS; 362 hp) (Engine) / 90 kW (122 PS; 121 bhp) (Electric) | 500 N⋅m (369 lbf⋅ft) (Engine) / 440 N⋅m (325 lbf⋅ft) (Electric) | 5\.0 seconds | 250 km/h (155 mph) | 2\.8 L/100 km (84 mpg‑US) |

(non-EU)

2020

seconds

4MATIC

(non-EU)

seconds

(EU)

(EU)

* With optional extra cost AMG Driver's Package

### Transmission (2017–2020\)

| Model | Years | Types |
| --- | --- | --- |
| S 320 (China) | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 450 | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 450 4MATIC | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 560 | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 560 4MATIC | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 560 e Plug-In Hybrid | 2018–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| Maybach S 560 | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| Maybach S 560 4MATIC | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 600 | 2014–2020 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC Plus |
| S 63 AMG 4MATIC\+ | 2013–2020 | 9-speed automatic AMG SPEEDSHIFT MCT |
| S 65 AMG | 2013–2020 | 7-speed automatic AMG SPEEDSHIFT Plus 7G-TRONIC |
| Maybach S 650 | 2017–2020 | 7-speed automatic 7G-TRONIC PLUS |
| S 350 d | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 350 d 4MATIC | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 400 d | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |
| S 400 d 4MATIC | 2017–2020 | 9-speed automatic 9G-TRONIC |

### Model codes

| Code | Model |
| --- | --- |
| 222\.057 | S 400 |
| 222\.058 | S 450 |
| 222\.059 | S 450 4-MATIC |
| 222\.060 | S 500 |
| 222\.064 | S 450 4-MATIC |
| 222\.066 | S 450 |
| 222\.067 | S 400 4-MATIC |
| 222\.077 | S 63 AMG |
| 222\.082 | S 500 |
| 222\.083 | S 560 |
| 222\.085 | S 500 4-MATIC |
| 222\.086 | S 560 4-MATIC |
| 222\.104 | S 300 BLUETEC HYBRID/H |
| 222\.157 | S 400 HYBRID/H |
| 222\.163 | S 500 PLUG-IN HYBRID/E |
| 222\.173 | S 560E |
| 222\.155 | S 350 |
| 222\.162 | S 320 |
| 222\.164 | S 450 4-MATIC |
| 222\.165 | S 400 |
| 222\.166 | S 450 |
| 222\.167 | S 400 4-MATIC |
| 222\.176 | S 600 |
| 222\.177 | S 63 AMG |
| 222\.178 | S63 AMG 4-MATIC |
| 222\.179 | S 65 AMG |
| 222\.182 | S 500 |
| 222\.184 | S 500 4-MATIC |
| 222\.185 | S 500 4-MATIC |
| 222\.959 | S 450 4-MATIC MAYBACH |
| 222\.964 | S 450 4-MATIC |
| 222\.967 | S 400 4-MATIC MAYBACH |
| 222\.969 | S 500 4-MATIC MAYBACH |
| 222\.976 | S 600 MAYBACH |
| 222\.980 | S 650 MAYBACH |
| 222\.982 | S 500 MAYBACH |
| 222\.983 | S 560 MAYBACH |
| 222\.984 | S 500 4-MATIC MAYBACH |
| 222\.986 | S 560 4-MATIC MAYBACH |

