# Kodansha

| This article **needs additional citations for verification**. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.*Find sources:* "Kodansha" – news **·** newspapers **·** books **·** scholar **·** JSTOR *(December 2024)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- |

| You can help **expand this article with text translated from the corresponding article in Japanese**. *(July 2024\)* Click \[show] for important translation instructions. * View a machine-translated version of the Japanese article. * Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia. * Consider **adding a topic** to this template: there are already 1,461 articles in the main category, and specifying`|topic=` will aid in categorization. * Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article. * You **must** provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is `Content in this edit is translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at [[:ja:講談社]]; see its history for attribution.` * You may also add the template `{{Translated|ja|講談社}}` to the talk page. * For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation. |
| --- |

* View a machine-translated version of the Japanese article.
* Machine translation, like DeepL or Google Translate, is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.
* Consider **adding a topic** to this template: there are already 1,461 articles in the main category, and specifying`|topic=` will aid in categorization.
* Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.
* You **must** provide copyright attribution in the edit summary accompanying your translation by providing an interlanguage link to the source of your translation. A model attribution edit summary is `Content in this edit is translated from the existing Japanese Wikipedia article at [[:ja:講談社]]; see its history for attribution.`
* You may also add the template `{{Translated|ja|講談社}}` to the talk page.
* For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.

**Kodansha Ltd.** (Japanese: 株式会社講談社, Hepburn: *Kabushiki-gaisha Kōdansha*) is a Japanese privately held publishing company headquartered in Bunkyō, Tokyo. Kodansha publishes manga magazines which include *Nakayoshi*, *Morning*, *Afternoon*, *Evening*, *Weekly Young Magazine*, *Weekly Shōnen Magazine*, and *Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine*, as well as the more literary magazines *Gunzō*, *Shūkan Gendai*, and the Japanese dictionary, *Nihongo Daijiten*. Kodansha was founded by Seiji Noma in 1910, and members of his family continue as its owners either directly or through the Noma Cultural Foundation.

Kodansha Ltd.
| Logo used since 2021 | |
| --- | --- |
| Headquarters in Bunkyō, Tokyo | |
| Native name | 株式会社講談社 |
| Romanized name | Kabushiki gaisha Kōdansha |
| Formerly | Dainippon Yubenkai-Kodansha (1911–1958\) |
| Company type | Family-owned private KK |
| Industry | Publishing, music |
| Founded | 1911; 114 years ago (1911) (as Dai Nippon Yūbenkai) December 1, 1931; 93 years ago (1931-12-01) (as Kodansha Ltd.) |
| Founder | Seiji Noma |
| Headquarters | Bunkyō, Tokyo, Japan |
| Area served | Worldwide |
| Key people | Yoshinobu Noma \[jp] (president and CEO) |
| Products | Books, light novels, magazines, manga, comics, CDs and DVDs (through King Records) |
| Owner | Noma family (Noma Cultural Foundation 39\.2%) |
| Number of employees | 914 (as of September 2013\[update]) |
| Subsidiaries | King Record Co., Ltd.Kobunsha Co., Ltd.Kodansha USAIchijinshaWani Books |
| Website | www.kodansha.co.jp |

Contents
--------

* 1 History
* 2 Relationships with other organizations
	+ 2\.1 NHK
* 3 Honors
* 4 List of magazines
	+ 4\.1 Manga magazines
		- 4\.1\.1 Male-oriented manga magazines
		- 4\.1\.2 Female-oriented manga magazines
	+ 4\.2 Literary magazines
* 5 Book series
	+ 5\.1 Published by Kodansha Ltd.
	+ 5\.2 Published by Kodansha International/USA Ltd.
* 6 Miss iD
* 7 Awards given
* 8 See also
* 9 References
* 10 External links

* 2\.1 NHK

* 4\.1 Manga magazines
	+ 4\.1\.1 Male-oriented manga magazines
	+ 4\.1\.2 Female-oriented manga magazines
* 4\.2 Literary magazines

* 4\.1\.1 Male-oriented manga magazines
* 4\.1\.2 Female-oriented manga magazines

* 5\.1 Published by Kodansha Ltd.
* 5\.2 Published by Kodansha International/USA Ltd.

History
-------

Seiji Noma founded Kodansha in 1910 as a spin-off of the *Dai-Nippon Yūbenkai* (大日本雄辯會, "Greater Japan Oratorical Society") and produced the literary magazine, *Yūben,* (雄辯) as its first publication. The name *Kodansha* (taken from *Kōdan Club* (講談倶楽部), a now-defunct magazine published by the company) originated in 1911 when the publisher formally merged with the *Dai-Nippon Yūbenkai*. The company has used its current legal name since 1958\. It uses the motto *"omoshirokute, tame ni naru"* (面白くて、ためになる, "To be interesting and beneficial").

Kodansha Limited owns the Otowa Group, which manages subsidiary companies such as King Records (official name: King Record Co., Ltd.) and Kobunsha, and publishes *Nikkan Gendai,* a daily tabloid. It also has close ties with Disney and officially sponsors Tokyo Disneyland.

Kodansha is the largest publisher in Japan.\[*citation needed*] Revenues dropped due to the 2002 recession in Japan and an accompanying downturn in the publishing industry: the company posted a loss in the 2002 financial year for the first time since the end of World War II. (The second-largest publisher, Shogakukan, has done relatively better. In the 2003 financial year, Kodansha had revenues of ¥167 billion compared to ¥150 billion for Shogakukan. Kodansha, at its peak, led Shogakukan by over ¥50 billion in revenue.)\[*citation needed*]

Kodansha sponsors the Kodansha Manga Award which has run since 1977 (and since 1960 under other names).\[*citation needed*]

Kodansha's headquarters in Tokyo once housed Noma Dōjō, a kendo practice-hall established by Seiji Noma in 1925\. However, the hall was demolished in November 2007 and replaced with a dōjō in a new building nearby.

The company announced that it was closing its English-language publishing house, Kodansha International, at the end of April 2011\. Their American publishing house, Kodansha USA, will remain in operation.

Kodansha USA began issuing new publications under the head administrator of the international branch, Kentaro Tsugumi, starting in September 2012 with a hardcover release of *The Spirit of Aikido.* Many of Kodansha USA's older titles have been reprinted. According to Daniel Mani of Kodansha USA, Inc., "Though we did stopped \[*sic*] publishing new books for about a year starting from late 2011, we did continue to sell most of our older title throughout that period (so Kodansha USA never actually closed)."\[*citation needed*]

In October 2016, Kodansha acquired publisher Ichijinsha and turned the company into its wholly-owned subsidiary.

On November 30, 2022, Kodansha announced an extended partnership with Disney to release anime originals based on its manga exclusively on video streaming service Disney\+ starting with the second season of *Tokyo Revengers*.

On March 21, 2023, Kodansha announced a manga distribution service called "K Manga" which was initially launched exclusively in the United States on May 10, 2023\. It started approximately with 400 titles, of which 70 were simultaneous publications of ongoing series. On October 21, 2024, it was announced that the service became available in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and Singapore.

On May 24, 2024, Kodansha announced that they acquired publisher Wani Books and turned it into a wholly-owned subsidiary.

Relationships with other organizations
--------------------------------------

| This section **does not cite any sources**. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. *(December 2024)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- |

The Kodansha company holds ownership in various broadcasting companies in Japan. It also owns shares in Nippon Cultural Broadcasting and Kobunsha. In the 2005 takeover-war for Nippon Broadcasting System between Livedoor and Fuji TV, Kodansha supported Fuji TV by selling its stock to Fuji TV.

### NHK

Kodansha has a somewhat complicated relationship with NHK (Nippon Housou Kyoukai), Japan's public broadcaster. Many of the manga and novels published by Kodansha have spawned anime adaptations. Animation such as *Cardcaptor Sakura*, aired in NHK's *Eisei Anime Gekijō* time-slot, and Kodansha published a companion magazine to the NHK children's show *Okāsan to Issho*. The two companies often clash editorially, however. The October 2000 issue of *Gendai* accused NHK of staging footage used in a news report in 1997 on dynamite fishing in Indonesia. NHK sued Kodansha in the Tokyo District Court, which ordered Kodansha to publish a retraction and pay ¥4 million in damages. Kodansha appealed the decision and reached a settlement whereby it had to issue only a partial retraction and to pay no damages.\[*unreliable source?*] *Gendai*'s sister magazine *Shūkan Gendai* nonetheless published an article probing further into the staged-footage controversy that has dogged NHK.

Honors
------

* Japan Foundation: Japan Foundation Special Prize, 1994\.

List of magazines
-----------------

### Manga magazines

This is a list of manga magazines published by Kodansha.

***Kodomo* (children's) manga magazines**

* *Comic BomBom* (1981–2007\)

***Shōnen* manga magazines**

* *Weekly Shōnen Magazine* (since 1959\)
* *Monthly Shōnen Magazine* (since 1975\)
* *Shōnen Sirius* (monthly since 2005\)
* *Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine* (monthly since 2009\)
* *Suiyōbi no Sirius* (website, since 2013\)
* *Magazine Pocket* (app/website, since 2015\)
* *Monthly Maga Kichi* (website since 2023\)

* *Shōnen Club* (1914–1962\)
* *Monthly Manga Shōnen* (1947–1955\)
* *Bokura* (1954-1969\)
* *Magazine Special* (1983–2017\)
* *Monthly Shōnen Magazine GREAT* (1993–2009\)
* *Monthly Shōnen Rival* (2008–2014\)
* *Magazine E-no* (2009–2011\)
* *Monthly Shonen Magazine\+* (2011–2014\)
* *Shōnen Magazine R* (2015–2023\)
* *Shōnen Magazine Edge* (2015–2023\)

***Seinen* manga magazines**

* *Weekly Young Magazine* (since 1980\)
* *Monthly Young Magazine* (since 2009\)
* *Morning* (weekly since 1982; originally called *Comic Morning*)
* *Afternoon* (monthly, since 1986\)
* *Good! Afternoon* (monthly since 2012; bi-monthly from 2008 to 2012\)
* *Comic Days* (app/website, since 2018\)
* *Yanmaga Web* (website, since 2020\)
* *Morning Two Web* (website, since 2022\)

* *Young Magazine Zōkan Kaizokuban* (ヤングマガジン増刊海賊版) (1986–1995\)
* *Mr. Magazine* (1991–2000\)
* *Monthly Magazine Z* (1999–2009\)
* *Young Magazine Uppers* (1998–2004\)
* *Morning Two* (2006–2022\)
* *Nemesis* (2010–2018\)
* *Young Magazine the 3rd* (2014–2021\)
* *Evening* (2001-2023\)

***Shōjo* manga magazines**

* *Nakayoshi* (monthly since 1954\)
* *Bessatsu Friend* (monthly since 1965\)
* *Dessert* (monthly since 1996\)
* *Nakayoshi Lovely* (5 issues per year, since ????)
* *The Dessert* (monthly, since ????)

* *Shōjo Club* (monthly, 1923–1962\)
* *Shōjo Friend* (1962–1996\)
* *Monthly Carol* (1983-1984\)
* *Mimi* (1975–1996\)
* *Aria* (monthly, 2010–2018\)

***Josei* manga magazines**

* *Be Love* (monthly 1980–1982, 2018–present, bimonthly 1982–2018; originally called *Be in Love*)
* *Kiss* (monthly since 1992\)
* *Kiss Plus* (bi-monthly, ????-2014; succeeded by *Hatsu Kiss*)
* *ITAN* (quarterly since 2010\)
* *Hatsu Kiss* (bi-monthly 2014–2018, monthly 2018–2021\)

**Web magazines**

* *Ane Friend*
* *Comic Tint*
* *Honey Milk*

### Literary magazines

* *Gunzo*, monthly literary magazine
* *Mephisto*, tri-annual literary magazine focusing on mystery and detective stories
* *Faust*

Book series
-----------

### Published by Kodansha Ltd.

* Kodansha Gakujutsu Bunko (講談社学術文庫) (English, "Kodansha Academic Paperback Library") (1970\)

### Published by Kodansha International/USA Ltd.

* Japanese for Busy People Series
* Japanese for Young People Series
* Kodansha Bilingual Books
* Kodansha Globe
* This Beautiful World

Miss iD
-------

Kodansha organizes the Miss iD pageant, which started in 2012\. iD stands for "identity", "idol", "I", and "diversity", and it is described as a pageant to discover diverse role models for the "new era" without being bound to conventional beauty and lifestyle standards. Married and transgender women are allowed to participate. The Miss ID title is awarded to more than one person each year, and holders of the title include actress Tina Tamashiro, singer Rie Kaneko, and musician Ena Fujita. Computer-generated character Saya and AI character Rinna were semifinalists in the 2018 pageant.

Awards given
------------

Kodansha presents the following awards: 

* The Noma Prize for Literature
* The Noma Literary Prize for New Writers
* The Noma Literary Prize for Children’s Literature
* The Noma Publishing Cultural Prize
* The Yoshikawa Eiji Prize for Literature
* The Yoshikawa Eiji Bunko Prize
* The Yoshikawa Eiji Prize for New Writers
* The Yoshikawa Eiji Cultural Prize
* The Kodansha Manga Awards
* The Kodansha Honda Yasuharu Non-Fiction Award
* The Kodansha Science Publication Award
* The Kodansha Picture Book Award
* The Noma Award for the Translation of Japanese Literature
* The Edogawa Rampo Award
* The Kodansha Media Award