# Jason Alexander

| Jason Alexander | |
| --- | --- |
| Alexander in 2009 | |
| Born | Jay Scott Greenspan (1959-09-23) September 23, 1959 (age 65\)Newark, New Jersey, U.S. |
| Alma mater | Boston University |
| Occupations | * Actor * comedian * director * podcaster * presenter |
| Years active | 1981–present |
| Spouse | Daena Title ​(m. 1982\)​ |
| Children | 2 |
| Relatives | Stacy Title (cousin-in-law) |
| Alexander's speaking voice  Celebrating the retirement of Cantor Jack of Parsippany–Troy Hills, New Jersey's Adath Shalom. | |

* Actor
* comedian
* director
* podcaster
* presenter

**Jay Scott Greenspan** (born September 23, 1959\), known professionally as **Jason Alexander**, is an American actor and comedian. Over the course of his career he has received an Emmy Award and a Tony Award as well as nominations for four Golden Globe Awards. He gained stardom for his role as George Costanza in the NBC sitcom *Seinfeld* (1989–1998\), for which he won a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series and was nominated for seven consecutive Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series and four Golden Globe Awards for Best Supporting Actor in Television.

Alexander made his Broadway debut originating the role of Joe in Stephen Sondheim's *Merrily We Roll Along* in 1981\. He remained active on Broadway acting in the musicals *The Rink* in 1984, *Personals* in 1985, and the Neil Simon play *Broadway Bound* in 1986\. He then starred in *Jerome Robbins' Broadway* in 1989, for which he won the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Musical. He appeared in the Los Angeles production of Mel Brooks's *The Producers*. He was the artistic director of "Reprise! Broadway's Best in Los Angeles", where he has directed musicals.

His film roles include *Pretty Woman* (1990\), *Coneheads* (1993\), *North* (1994\), *The Last Supper* (1995\), *Dunston Checks In* (1996\), *Denial* (1998\), *Shallow Hal* (2001\), and *Wild Card* (2015\). He voiced the gargoyle Hugo in the Disney film *The Hunchback of Notre Dame* (1996\) and the 2002 sequel as well as the titular role in *Duckman* (1994–1997\). For his role in *Dream On* (1994\) he was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series. He also acted in *Curb Your Enthusiasm* (2001, 2009\), and *The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel* (2019\).

Early life and education
------------------------

Greenspan was born in Newark, New Jersey to a Jewish family, the son of Ruth Minnie (née Simon), a nurse and health care administrator, and Alexander B. Greenspan, an accounting manager. Greenspan later borrowed his father's first name to create his stage name, Jason Alexander.

Alexander grew up in Maplewood and Livingston, New Jersey, and is a 1977 graduate of Livingston High School. Interested in magic from an early age, he initially hoped to be a magician, but while attending a magic camp was told that his hands were too small for card magic. He became interested in theater, eventually realizing, "Wait a minute—the whole thing's an illusion. Nothing up there is real" and that theater itself was "a magic trick". He then decided to pursue a theater career.

After high school, he studied theater at Boston University. He wanted to pursue classical acting, but a professor redirected him toward comedy after noticing his physique, remarking, "I know your heart and soul are Hamlet, but you will never play Hamlet." Alexander left Boston University without a degree after his third year to take a full-time acting job in New York City. The university awarded him an honorary degree in 1995\.

Career
------

### 1980–1999: Broadway debut and *Seinfeld*

Alexander began his acting career on the New York stage and is an accomplished singer and dancer. Alexander made his film debut in 1981 in the summer camp slasher film *The Burning*. On Broadway he appeared in Stephen Sondheim's *Merrily We Roll Along* in 1981, Kander \& Ebb's *The Rink* in 1984, Neil Simon's *Broadway Bound* in 1986, *Accomplice* in 1990, and *Jerome Robbins' Broadway* in 1989, for which he garnered the 1989 Tony Award for Best Actor in a Musical. Frank Rich of *The New York Times* wrote of his performance "Jason Alexander, the evening's delightful narrator, accomplishes the seemingly impossible: he banishes the memory of Zero Mostel from the role of Pseudolus in *A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum*".

In addition to his roles as an insensitive, money-hungry lawyer in *Pretty Woman* in 1990, Alexander has appeared in *Jacob's Ladder* in 1990, *Coneheads* in 1993, *The Paper* and *North* in 1994, *The Last Supper* in 1995, *Dunston Checks In* in 1996, *Love! Valour! Compassion!* in 1997, *Denial* in 1998, and *Love and Action in Chicago* in 1999\. Alexander starred in several commercials during the 1980s. Among them were commercials for Hershey's Kiss; Delta Gold potato chips; Miller Lite beer; McDonald's McDLT hamburger; Pabst Blue Ribbon beer; Levi's 501 jeans; Sony Watchman TV; and Western Union wire transfer. Before *Seinfeld*, Alexander appeared in commercials for John Deere and McDonald's and in the short-lived CBS sitcom *Everything's Relative* (1987\).

Alexander is best known as one of the key cast members of the award-winning television sitcom *Seinfeld*, where he played the bumbling George Costanza (Jerry Seinfeld's character's best friend since childhood). He was nominated for seven Primetime Emmy Awards and four Golden Globe Awards for the role, but did not win any, mainly due to his co-star Michael Richards winning for his role as Cosmo Kramer. He did, however, win the 1995 Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series.

Concurrently with his *Seinfeld* role, he had a part in the ABC sitcom *Dinosaurs* as Al "Sexual" Harris (who frequently engaged in sexual harassment) as well as other characters from 1991 to 1994\. For his role in an episode of *Dream On*, Alexander was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series in 1994\. Alexander voiced the lead character in the animated series *Duckman* (1994–1997\) and voiced Catbert, the evil director of human resources, in the short-lived animated series *Dilbert* from 1999 to 2000, based on the then-popular comic strip. In January 1995, he did a commercial for Rold Gold pretzels to be broadcast during the Super Bowl. The commercial depicts him with *Frasier* dog Eddie jumping out of an airplane with a parachute over the stadium. After the commercial, the audience is brought back to a supposedly live feed of the playing field hearing startled sports commentators as Alexander and the dog land in the field to wild applause.

Alexander appeared in the 1995 TV version of the Broadway musical *Bye Bye Birdie*, as Conrad Birdie's agent, Albert Peterson. He guest-starred in episode 8 of the 1996 variety show *Muppets Tonight*. He voiced the gargoyle Hugo in Disney's 1996 animated film *The Hunchback of Notre Dame* and its direct-to-video sequel, *The Hunchback of Notre Dame II*. Alexander voiced the character Abis Mal in the 1994 film *The Return of Jafar* and the 1994-1995 TV series based on the 1992 film *Aladdin*.

In 1997, he appeared in *Cinderella*, a remake of *Rodgers and Hammerstein's Cinderella,* alongside Whitney Houston, Brandy Norwood, and Whoopi Goldberg. His other Disney voice work includes *House of Mouse* in 2001 and the 2012 video game *Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance*. He has dabbled in directing, starting with 1996's *For Better or Worse* and 1999's *Just Looking*. In 1999, Alexander presided over the *New York Friars Club Roast* event honoring Jerry Stiller, who played his father on *Seinfeld*; it featured appearances by Kevin James and Patton Oswalt, both Stiller's costars on *The King of Queens*. Alexander appeared in the 1999 *Star Trek: Voyager* episode "Think Tank" as Kurros, a genius alien trying to get Seven of Nine to serve on his ship.

### 2000–2009: Solo-lead sitcoms and return to theatre

Despite a successful career in film and stage, Alexander did not repeat his *Seinfeld*-level of success in television. The year 2001 marked his appearance as inept womanizer Mauricio in *Shallow Hal* and his first post-*Seinfeld* return to prime-time television: the heavily promoted but short-lived ABC sitcom *Bob Patterson*, which was canceled after five episodes. Alexander partially blames the show's failure on the country's mood after 9/11\. Alexander made cameo appearances as himself in 2001 in the second season of *Curb Your Enthusiasm*, and he appeared in the show's seventh season with his three principal *Seinfeld* co-stars. He was featured in the *Friends* 2001 episode "The One Where Rosita Dies" as Earl, a suicidal supply manager. Phoebe calls him trying to sell him toner, learns about his problem, and tries to persuade him not to commit suicide. This is referenced in an episode of *Malcolm in the Middle* where Alexander appears as Leonard, a neurotic and critical loner. He describes himself as "free" and says he makes money "selling toner over the phone". Later in the episode, he is repeatedly harassed by a man named George.

He appeared in "One Night at Mercy", the first episode of the short-lived 2002 revival of The Twilight Zone, playing Death. He played the toymaker A.C. Gilbert in the 2002 film *The Man Who Saved Christmas*. He appeared in Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) commercials in 2002, including one with Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants and another with Trista Rehn of *The Bachelorette*. It was rumored that he quit doing these commercials due to KFC suppliers and slaughterhouses' alleged cruelty to animals, but he denied that in an interview with *Adweek*, saying, "That's PETA bullcrap. I loved working for KFC. I was targeted by PETA to broker something between them. I think KFC really stepped up to the plate; unfortunately PETA did not." In 2007, Alexander appeared in a commercial for the ASPCA that aired on cable TV stations. In 2018, Alexander portrayed Colonel Sanders in commercials for KFC, reprising his role from the 2002 campaign.

In 2003, he was cast opposite Martin Short in the Los Angeles production of Mel Brooks's *The Producers*. He appeared with Kelsey Grammer in the 2004 musical adaptation of Charles Dickens's *A Christmas Carol*, as Jacob Marley. Alexander's second chance as a TV series lead, the CBS sitcom *Listen Up* (2004–05\), also fell short of a second season. Alexander was the principal executive producer of the series, based very loosely on the life of the popular sports-media personality Tony Kornheiser. He performed on the *Family Guy: Live in Vegas* 2005 album. Alexander continued to appear in live stage shows, including Barbra Streisand's memorable birthday party in 2005 for Stephen Sondheim at the Hollywood Bowl, where he performed selections from *Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street* with Angela Lansbury. He featured in the 2005 *Monk* episode "Mr. Monk and the Other Detective" as Monk's rival, Marty Eels.

In a 2006 appearance on *Jimmy Kimmel Live!*, Alexander demonstrated several self-defense techniques. Also that year, he hosted the PBS "A Capitol Fourth" celebrations in Washington, D.C., singing, dancing, and playing tuned drums. Alexander was featured as a recurring cast member in the second season of *Everybody Hates Chris*. He hosted the Comedy Central Roast of William Shatner. He was the artistic director of Reprise Theatre Company in Los Angeles from 2007 until it went defunct in 2013, where he previously directed *Sunday in the Park with George*, and directed its 2007 revival of *Damn Yankees*. In 2007, Alexander was a guest star in the third episode of the improv comedy series *Thank God You're Here*.

He has been a frequent guest and panelist on Bill Maher's *Politically Incorrect* in 1995, 1997 and 2000 and *Real Time* in 2006, 2009 and 2012; *Hollywood Squares* in 1999, 2002 and 2004; the *Late Late Show* in 2003, 2012, 2014 and 2015, with Craig Kilborn, Craig Ferguson, and James Corden; *Late Show with David Letterman* in 1989, 2000, and 2002; *The Late Show with Stephen Colbert* in 2015; and *The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon* in 2015\. In 2008, Alexander guest-starred in the season four episode "Masterpiece" of the CBS show *Criminal Minds* as Professor Rothschild, a well-educated serial killer obsessed with the Fibonacci sequence who sends the team into a race against time to save his last victims. He returned in the same season to direct the episode "Conflicted", featuring the actor Jackson Rathbone.

Alexander hosted the LOL Sudbury opening night gala in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada in 2008, which was simulcast throughout Canada at 60 Cineplex theaters, a first for any comedy festival. He has lent his voice to several episodes of the *Twilight Zone Radio Dramas*. In 2008 and again in 2009, Alexander fronted *Jason Alexander's Comedy Spectacular*, a routine exclusive to Australia. The show consists of stand-up and improvisation and incorporates Alexander's musical talent. He is backed up by several well-known Australian comedians. His first time performing a similar show of this nature was in 2006's *Jason Alexander's Comedy Christmas*. In February/March 2010, Alexander starred in his show, *The Donny Clay Experience*, at the Planet Hollywood Resort in Las Vegas, Nevada. Donny Clay, whom he has portrayed in a tour of the United States and Orillia, Ontario, is a self-help guru in a similar mold to his *Bob Patterson* character. In 2009, he played Joseph in the Thomas Nelson audio Bible production *The Word of Promise*. The project featured a large ensemble of actors, including Jim Caviezel, Lou Gossett Jr., John Rhys-Davies, Jon Voight, Gary Sinise, Christopher McDonald, Marisa Tomei, and John Schneider. In 2009, Alexander had a small role in the film *Hachi: A Dog's Tale* as a train station manager.

### 2010–present

He starred as Cosmo in the 2011 live action film *A Fairly Odd Movie: Grow Up, Timmy Turner!*. In 2011, Alexander was the guest star in an episode of *Harry's Law*, playing a high school teacher bringing a wrongful dismissal suit. In 2015, he replaced Larry David as the lead in David's Broadway play *Fish in the Dark.* He co-starred opposite Sherie Rene Scott in the 2017 world premiere of John Patrick Shanley's *The Portuguese Kid* at the Manhattan Theatre Club. In 2018, Alexander played Olix the bartender in *The Orville*. The same year, he portrayed Gene Lundy, a drama teacher, on two episodes of *Young Sheldon*. In 2020, 2021 and 2022, he reprised the role of Gene Lundy on one episode.

In 2019, Alexander appeared on *The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel* as Asher Friedman, a blacklisted Broadway playwright who is an old friend of Midge Maisel's father Abe Weissman. He won the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Original Song for "The Bad Guys?" on *Brainwashed By Toons* (2020\). In 2020, Alexander hosted the *Saturday Night Seder*, an online Passover Seder that featured many celebrities and benefited the CDC Foundation.

From February 2023 he co-presented *Really? No, Really?*, a weekly podcast in which he, co-host Peter Tilden, and their guests attempt to find answers "to life’s most baffling, intriguing, confusing and annoying questions". In July 2023, he made his Broadway directing debut with Sandy Rustin's comedy *The Cottage*. The cast includes Eric McCormack, Laura Bell Bundy and Lilli Cooper. In 2023, on the December 21 primetime CBS special *Dick Van Dyke: 98 Years of Magic*, Alexander performed two songs in conjunction with dance-performers and closed the show with a spoken tribute to Van Dyke.

Personal life
-------------

Alexander has been married to Daena E. Title, cousin of director Stacy Title, since May 31, 1982\. They have two sons, Gabriel and Noah.

Alexander performed a mentalism and magic act at The Magic Castle in Hollywood, California, from April 24 to 30, 2006, and he was later named The Academy of Magical Arts Parlor Magician of the Year for this act. He won the academy's Junior Achievement Award in 1989\.

### Charity

Alexander was the national spokesman for the Scleroderma Foundation, a leading organization dedicated to raising awareness of the disease and assisting those who are afflicted. In summer 2005, he appeared with Lee Iacocca in ads for DaimlerChrysler. Iacocca did the ads as part of a way to raise money for Denise Faustman's research on autoimmunity. Iacocca and Alexander both have loved ones whose lives have been adversely affected by autoimmunity.

Alexander competed on televised poker shows and in various tournaments. He appeared twice on Bravo's *Celebrity Poker Showdown*, winning the final table of the 8th season. Alexander won the $500,000 prize for the charity of his choice, The United Way of America, to help benefit the New Orleans area. Alexander played in the 2007 World Series of Poker main event, but he was eliminated on the second day. He returned in 2009, making it to day 3 of the event and finishing in the top 30% of the field. Alexander has appeared on NBC's *Poker After Dark* in the "Celebrities and Mentors" episode, finishing in 6th place after being eliminated by professional poker player Gavin Smith. He signed with PokerStars, where he plays under the screen name "J. Alexander". In 2021, Alexander competed in a virtual National Poker Tournament, hosted by the Children's Tumor Foundation, to raise money for Neurofibromatosis research.

### Political views

Alexander has been a prominent public supporter of the OneVoice initiative, which seeks out opinions from moderate Israelis and Palestinians who want to achieve a mutual peace agreement, through what it states is the silent majority of Israelis and Palestinians. On *Real Time with Bill Maher*, he said he had visited Israel many times and spoke about progress toward peace he had observed.

On December 6, 2012 Alexander emceed his third gala event for non-profit group Friends of the Israel Defense Forces, a charity supporting the Israel Defense Forces. Musician Stevie Wonder cancelled his performance at the event following a recommendation from the UN, and a public petition from Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) requesting that he not attend the event.\[*better source needed*] Alexander who was interviewed at the event by Jewish News Syndicate stated he supported the OneVoice Movement, and acknowledged an occupation of Palestine and called for a two-state solution, which was later criticised by Roz Rothstein, CEO of the pro-Israel education group StandWithUs. When asked about the IDF, Alexander stated that they were humane and noble, stating "some of the finest, most humane, most admirable, most noble-serving soldiers that I've ever seen" and that "there can never be any doubt that I am also an advocate for Israel". When asked about why he had repeatedly emceed the event, Alexander stated, "They don’t understand first of all what \[FIDF] is, and they see it as just a blanket support for Israeli military, and they don’t understand how I can say that I’m an advocate for both sides. And given the fact that there are eyes on this event tonight, I thought it was important to get up and say, 'This is why I can advocate for this group and I can advocate for Israel, and I’m not blind to the fact that we’re in conflict, and I hold everyone equally accountable, and I hold everyone equally to my heart.'" On November 6, 2015 he again emceed an event at The Beverly Hilton Hotel in California, which raised $31 million for the, "provid\[ing] educational, cultural and recreational programs and facilities for IDF soldiers."

Alexander is a supporter of the Democratic Party. Alexander supports same-sex marriage and an assault weapons ban. In 2020, he campaigned for the Texas Democrats with former *Seinfeld* colleagues Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Larry David. He endorsed Barack Obama in 2012 and Joe Biden in 2020\. Alexander has been an outspoken critic of the Trump administration and he has ridiculed Donald Trump over his dancing. He has called Republican Party senator Ted Cruz a jerk from the "jerk store" in reference to a joke from *Seinfeld*.

Acting credits
--------------

### Film

| Year | Title | Role | Notes | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1981 | *The Burning* | Dave |  |  |
| 1986 | *The Mosquito Coast* | Clerk |  |  |
| *Brighton Beach Memoirs* | Pool Player |  |  |
| 1990 | *Pretty Woman* | Philip Stuckey |  |  |
| *White Palace* | Neil |  |  |
| *Jacob's Ladder* | Mr. Geary |  |  |
| 1992 | *I Don't Buy Kisses Anymore* | Bernie Fishbine |  |  |
| 1993 | *Sexual Healing* | Frank | Short subject |  |
| *Coneheads* | Larry Farber |  |  |
| *For Goodness Sake* | VCR Customer | Short subject |  |
| 1994 | *The Paper* | Marion Sandusky |  |  |
| *North* | North's Father |  |  |
| *The Return of Jafar* | Abis Mal | Voice; direct-to-video |  |
| *Blankman* | Mr. Stone |  |  |
| 1995 | *For Better or Worse* | Michael Makeshift | Also director |  |
| *The Last Supper* | The Anti-Environmentalist |  |  |
| 1996 | *Dunston Checks In* | Robert Grant |  |  |
| *The Hunchback of Notre Dame* | Hugo | Voice |  |
| 1997 | *Love! Valour! Compassion!* | Buzz Hauser |  |  |
| 1998 | *Denial* | Art Witz |  |  |
| 1999 | *Madeline: Lost in Paris* | Henri / Uncle Horst | Voice; direct-to-video |  |
| *Love and Action in Chicago* | Frank Bonner |  |  |
| *Just Looking* | Radio Announcer | Voice, uncredited; also director |  |
| 2000 | *The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle* | Boris Badenov |  |  |
| *Let's Rap Fire Safety* | Smoke Detector | Voice; short subject |  |
| 2001 | *The Trumpet of the Swan* | Father | Voice |  |
| *On Edge* | Zamboni Phil |  |  |
| *Shallow Hal* | Mauricio Wilson |  |  |
| 2002 | *The Hunchback of Notre Dame II* | Hugo | Voice, direct-to-video |  |
| 2003 | *101 Dalmatians II: Patch's London Adventure* | Lil' Lightning | Voice, direct-to-video |  |
| 2006 | *Ira \& Abby* | Dr. Morris Saperstein |  |  |
| *Hood of Horror* | British Record Mogul |  |  |
| *How to Go Out on a Date in Queens* | Johnny |  |  |
| *Farce of the Penguins* | Penguin on Belly | Voice, direct-to-video |  |
| 2007 | *The Grand* | Dr. Yakov Achmed |  |  |
| 2009 | *Rock Slyde* | Mailman Stan |  |  |
| *Hachi: A Dog's Tale* | Carl |  |  |
| 2010 | *Quantum Quest: A Cassini Space Odyssey* | Major Moron | Voice |  |
| 2011 | *The Voyages of Young Doctor Dolittle* | Eugene | Voice; direct-to-video |  |
| 2012 | *Stars in Shorts* | Sid Rosenthal |  |  |
| *Delhi Safari* | Male Flamingo, Hyena Cook | Voice; English dub |  |
| 2014 | *Lucky Stiff* | Vinnie DiRuzzio |  |  |
| 2015 | *Wild Card* | Pinky |  |  |
| *Larry Gaye: Renegade Male Flight Attendant* | Larry's Dad |  |  |
| 2016 | *Tom and Jerry: Back to Oz* | Mr. Bibb / The Nome King | Voice; direct-to-video |  |
| *Best Worst Thing That Ever Could Have Happened* | Himself | Documentary |  |
| 2020 | *My Boyfriend's Meds* | Dr. Sternbach |  |  |
| *Faith Based* | Nicky Steele |  |  |
| 2023 | *Leo* | Jayda's dad | Voice |  |
| 2024 | *Stealing Pulp Fiction* | Dr. Mendelbaum |  |  |
| 2025 | *The Electric State* | TBA | Post-production |  |

### Television

| Year | Title | Role | Notes | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1981 | *Senior Trip* | Pete | Television film |  |
| 1984–1985 | *E/R* | Harold Stickley | 15 episodes |  |
| 1986 | *Rockabye* | Lt. Ernest Foy | Television film |  |
| 1987 | *Everything's Relative* | Julian Beeby | 10 episodes |  |
| 1988 | *Newhart* | Ramming | Episode: "Courtin' Disaster" |  |
| 1989–1998 | *Seinfeld* | George Costanza | Main role; 178 episodes |  |
| 1992–1993 | *Dinosaurs* | Various voices | Recurring role; 7 episodes |  |
| 1993 | *Dream On* | Randall Townsend | Episode: "Oral Sex, Lies and Videotape" |  |
| *Saturday Night Live* | Himself (host) | Episode: "Jason Alexander/Peter Gabriel" |  |
| 1994–1997 | *Duckman* | Eric Duckman (voice) | Main role; 70 episodes |  |
| 1994, 1998 | *The Larry Sanders Show* | Himself | 2 episodes |  |
| 1994 | *Aladdin* | Abis Mal (voice) | Recurring role; 14 episodes |  |
| 1995 | *Bye Bye Birdie* | Albert Peterson | Television film |  |
| *47th Primetime Emmy Awards* | Himself (co-host) | Television special |  |
| 1996 | *Muppets Tonight* | Himself | Episode: "Jason Alexander" |  |
| *The Nanny* | Jack | Episode: "The Tart with Heart" |  |
| *Sesame Street* | Himself | Episode 3557 |  |
| 1997 | *Remember WENN* | Alan Ballinger | Episode: "Nothing Up My Sleeve" |  |
| *Cinderella* | Lionel | Television film |  |
| 1998–1999 | *Hercules* | Poseidon (voice) | Recurring role; 7 episodes |  |
| 1998 | *Saturday Night Live* | Titey | Voice, episode: "Steve Buscemi/Third Eye Blind" |  |
| 1999 | *Jingle Bells* | Elf | Voice; Television film |  |
| *Ultimate Trek: Star Trek's Greatest Moments* | Captain James T. Kirk | Television special |  |
| *Star Trek: Voyager* | Kurros | Episode: "Think Tank" |  |
| 1999–2000 | *Dilbert* | Catbert (voice) | Main role; 9 episodes |  |
| 2001, 2009 | *Curb Your Enthusiasm* | Himself | Recurring role; 5 episodes |  |
| 2001 | *Friends* | Earl | Episode: "The One Where Rosita Dies" |  |
| *Bob Patterson* | Bob Patterson | Main role; 10 episodes; also executive producer |  |
| *The Legend of Tarzan* | Zutho | Voice, episode: "Tarzan and the Face from the Past" |  |
| 2002 | *Son of the Beach* | Tex Finklestein | Episode: "Penetration Island" |  |
| *House of Mouse* | Hugo | Voice; Episode: "Donald Wants to Fly" |  |
| *The Twilight Zone* | Death | Episode: "One Night at Mercy" |  |
| *The Man Who Saved Christmas* | A.C. Gilbert | Television film |  |
| 2003 | *Malcolm in the Middle* | Leonard | Episode: "Future Malcolm" |  |
| 2004–2005 | *Listen Up* | Tony Kleinman | Main role; also producer |  |
| 2004 | *A Christmas Carol* | Jacob Marley | Television film |  |
| 2005 | *Monk* | Marty Eels | Episode: "Mr. Monk and the Other Detective" |  |
| 2006 | *Odd Job Jack* | Don | Voice; Episode: "Twenty-One You're Dead" |  |
| 2006–2007 | *Everybody Hates Chris* | Principal Edwards | 2 episodes |  |
| 2006 | *Campus Ladies* | Professor | Episode: "A Very Special Episode" |  |
| 2008 | *The New Adventures of Old Christine* | Dr. Palmer | Episode: "One and a Half Men" |  |
| *Criminal Minds* | Prof. Rothchild | Episode: "Masterpiece" |  |
| 2009 | *Meteor* | Dr. Chetwyn | 2 episodes |  |
| 2010–2013 | *Fish Hooks* | Mr. Nibbles | Voice; 3 episodes |  |
| *The Cleveland Show* | Saul Friedman | Voice; 2 episodes |  |
| 2010, 2023 | *American Dad!* | Sal / Mr. Orlando | Voice; 2 episodes |  |
| 2011 | *Glenn Martin, DDS* | Brandon | Voice; Episode: "GlenHog Day" |  |
| *Franklin \& Bash* | Carter Lang | Episode: "Big Fish" |  |
| *Harry's Law* | Richard Cross | Episode: "Bad to Worse" |  |
| *China, IL* | Harold | Voice; 2 episodes |  |
| *A Fairly Odd Movie: Grow Up, Timmy Turner!* | Human Cosmo | Television film |  |
| 2011–2012 | *Dora the Explorer* | Owl | Voice; 3 episodes |  |
| 2012 | *Two and a Half Men* | Dr. Goodman | Episode: "The Straw in My Donut Hole" |  |
| *Clipaholics* | Narrator | Voice; main role |  |
| 2013 | *Community* | Mountain Man | Episode: "Intro to Felt Surrogacy" |  |
| 2014 | *Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee* | George Costanza | Episode: "George Costanza: The Over-Cheer" |  |
| *Kirstie* | Stanford Temple | Episode: "Maddie's Agent" |  |
| *Comedy Bang! Bang!* | Inspector Gantlet | Episode: "Jenna Fischer Wears a Floral Blouse \& Black Heels" |  |
| *How Murray Saved Christmas* | Doc Holiday | Voice; Television film |  |
| 2014–2017 | *The Tom and Jerry Show* | Rick (voice) | Recurring role (season 1–2\) |  |
| 2015 | *Big Time in Hollywood, FL* | Himself | Episode: "The Hand That Feeds" |  |
| *Penn Zero: Part-Time Hero* | Coach Wallace | Voice, episode: "Ultrahyperball" |  |
| *Drunk History* | William "Boss" Tweed | Episode: "Journalism" |  |
| *League of Legends with Videogamedunkey* | Himself | Episode: "Brucer Zin Zow" |  |
| 2015–2016 | *The Grinder* | Cliff Bemis | 4 episodes |  |
| *TripTank* | Various voices | 6 episodes |  |
| 2016 | *The Mark Lembeck Technique* | Mark Lembeck | Pilot |  |
| 2017 | *Animals.* | Algae | Voice, episode: "Rats" |  |
| *The Simpsons* | Bourbon Verlander | Voice; episode: "The Caper Chase" |  |
| *Hit the Road* | Ken Swallow | Main role; also co-creator, writer and executive producer |  |
| 2017–2018 | *Kody Kapow* | Goji | Voice; recurring role |  |
| 2017, 2019 | *Robot Chicken* | Krampus | Voice; 2 episodes |  |
| 2018–2022 | *Young Sheldon* | Gene Lundy | 5 episodes |  |
| 2018 | *Broadway: Beyond the Golden Age* | Himself | Documentary |  |
| 2018–2019 | *The Orville* | Olix | 2 episodes |  |
| 2019 | *The Bug Diaries* | Cicada | Voice; Episode: "Worm's New Digs" |  |
| *Richard Lovely* | Mr. Mouse | Voice; Pilot |  |
| *Pinky Malinky* | Mayor Hop | Voice; recurring role |  |
| 2019–present | *Harley Quinn* | Sy Borgman | Voice, 13 episodes |  |
| 2019–2022 | *The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel* | Asher Friedman | 4 episodes |  |
| 2019 | *Mad About You* | Himself | Episode: "Real Estate for Beginners" |  |
| 2021 | *The Conners* | Pastor Phil | 2 episodes |  |
| *The Problem with Jon Stewart* | Jeff Bezos | Episode: "Working-Class Economy" |  |
| 2022 | *Out of Office* |  | Television film |  |
| 2022–2024 | *Star Trek: Prodigy* | Doctor Noum | Voice; 23 episodes |  |
| 2023 | *History of the World, Part II* | Maurice Cheeks | Episode: "VI" |  |
| 2024 | *Rock, Paper, Scissors* | Jonathan Fartjoke | Voice; Episode: "Potato/The Fart Joke Debate" |  |
| *Y llegaron de noche* | Carl Laemmle | 4 episodes |  |

### Theatre

| Year | Title | Role | Venue | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1981 | *Merrily We Roll Along* | Joe Josephson | Neil Simon Theatre, Broadway |  |
| 1982 | *Forbidden Broadway* | Performer | Stage 72, Off-Broadway |  |
| 1984 | *The Rink* | Lino/Lenny/Punk/Uncle Fausto | Al Hirschfeld Theatre, Broadway |  |
| 1985–1986 | *Personals* | Louis/Others | Minetta Lane Theatre, Off-Broadway |  |
| 1986–1988 | *Broadway Bound* | Stanley | Broadhurst Theatre, Broadway |  |
| 1989–1990 | *Jerome Robbins' Broadway* | Narrator | Imperial Theatre, Broadway |  |
| 1990 | *Accomplice* | Performer | Richard Rodgers Theater, Broadway |  |
| *Light Up the Sky* | Sidney Black | Union Square Theatre, Off-Broadway |  |
| 2000 | *Defiled* | Harry Mendelssohn | Geffen Playhouse, Los Angeles |  |
| 2003–2004 | *The Producers* | Max Bialystock | National Tour |  |
| 2006 | *The God of Hell* | Director only | Geffen Playhouse, Los Angeles |  |
| 2008 | *The Odd Couple* | Oscar Madison | Stage Reading |  |
| 2013 | *Finding Neverland* | Charles Frohman | Workshop |  |
| *Broadway Bound* | Director only | Odyssey Theatre |  |
| 2015 | *Fish in the Dark* | Norman Drexel  (replacement) | Cort Theatre, Broadway |  |
| 2017 | *The Portuguese Kid* | Barry Dragonetti | Manhattan Theatre Club |  |
| 2019 | *The Last Five Years* | Director only | Syracuse Stage |  |
| 2023 | *The Cottage* | Director only | Helen Hayes Theater, Broadway |  |
| 2024 | *Judgment Day* | Sammy Campo | Chicago Shakespeare Theater |  |
| *Fiddler on the Roof* | Tevye | La Mirada Theatre for the Performing Arts |  |

### Music videos

| Year | Title | Role | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2007 | "Celebrity" | Performer |  |
| 2007 | "Online" | Director |
| 2012 | "Trying Not to Love You" | Bud the Coffee Foam Artist |

### Video games

| Year | Title | Voice role | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1996 | *Disney's Animated Storybook: The Hunchback of Notre Dame* | Hugo |  |
| *The Hunchback of Notre Dame: Topsy Turvy Games* | Hugo |  |
| 2012 | *Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance* | Hugo |  |

### Director

| Year | Title | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1992 | *Seinfeld* | Episode: "The Good Samaritan" |
| 2006 | *Campus Ladies* | Episode: "A Very Special Episode" |
| 2007–2008 | *Everybody Hates Chris* | 2 episodes |
| 2009 | *Criminal Minds* | Episode: "Conflicted" |
| 2010 | *'Til Death* | Episode: "Snore Loser" |
| 2012 | *Franklin \& Bash* | Episode: "Last Dance" |
| *Mike \& Molly* | Episode: "Vince Takes a Bath" |
| 2023 | *Young Sheldon* | Episode: "A Frat Party, a Sleepover and the Mother of All Blisters" |

Awards and nominations
----------------------

| Year | Association | Category | Performance | Result | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2020 | Daytime Emmy Awards | Outstanding Original Song | *Brainwashed By Toons* | Won |  |
| Outstanding Writing for a Special Class Program | Nominated |
| 1986 | Drama Desk Awards | Outstanding Featured Actor in a Musical | *Personals* | Nominated |  |
| 1989 | Outstanding Actor in a Musical | *Jerome Robbins' Broadway* | Won |
| 1992 | Primetime Emmy Awards | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Note" \+ "The Tape") | Nominated |  |
| 1993 | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Contest" \+ "The Outing") | Nominated |  |
| 1994 | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Hamptons" \+ "The Opposite") | Nominated |  |
| Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series | *Dream On*  (episode: "Oral Sex, Lies, and Videotape") | Nominated |
| 1995 | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Gymnast" \+ "The Race") | Nominated |  |
| 1996 | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Pool Guy" \+ "The Invitations") | Nominated |  |
| 1997 | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Comeback") | Nominated |  |
| 1998 | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Strike") | Nominated |  |
| 1992 | Golden Globe Awards | Best Supporting Actor – Television | *Seinfeld*  (season 3\) | Nominated |  |
| 1993 | *Seinfeld*  (season 4\) | Nominated |
| 1994 | *Seinfeld*  (season 5\) | Nominated |
| 1997 | *Seinfeld*  (season 8\) | Nominated |
| 1994 | Screen Actors Guild Awards | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld* | Won |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Won |
| 1995 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | Nominated |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |
| 1996 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | Won |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |
| 1997 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | Won |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |
| 1998 | Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |  |
| 1989 | Tony Awards | Best Actor in a Musical | *Jerome Robbins' Broadway* | Won |  |