# Hailey Bieber

| Hailey Bieber | |
| --- | --- |
| Bieber in 2019 | |
| Born | Hailey Rhode Baldwin (1996-11-22) November 22, 1996 (age 28\)Tucson, Arizona, U.S. |
| Occupations | * Model * socialite * media personality * businesswoman |
| Years active | 2014–present |
| Spouse | Justin Bieber ​(m. 2018\)​ |
| Children | 1 |
| Parents | * Stephen Baldwin (father) * Kennya Baldwin (mother) |
| Relatives | Eumir Deodato (maternal grandfather)Alec Baldwin (paternal uncle)Pattie Mallette (mother-in-law) |
| Family | Baldwin |
| **Modeling information** | |
| Height | 5 ft 8 in (1\.73 m) |
| Hair color | Light brown |
| Eye color | Brown |
| Agency | IMG Models |
|  | |

* Model
* socialite
* media personality
* businesswoman

* Stephen Baldwin (father)
* Kennya Baldwin (mother)

**Hailey Rhode Bieber** (née **Baldwin**; born November 22, 1996\) is an American model, socialite, and businesswoman. She has been featured in advertisements for Guess, Ralph Lauren, and Tommy Hilfiger.

Early life and family
---------------------

Hailey Rhode Baldwin was born in Tucson, Arizona, to actor Stephen Baldwin, the youngest of the Baldwin brothers, and graphic designer Kennya Deodato Baldwin. Bieber's maternal grandfather is the Brazilian musician Eumir Deodato. She was named after Halley's Comet.

Career
------

### Modeling

The first modeling agency Bieber signed with was Ford Models, appearing in magazines such as *Tatler,*, *LOVE*, *V* and *i-D*. Her first commercial campaign was for the clothing brand French Connection in the winter of 2014\. In October 2014, Bieber made her runway debut walking for Topshop and French fashion designer Sonia Rykiel. In December 2014, she was involved in a photo session for Love magazine, which also produced a short movie shot by photographer Daniel Jackson and released on the magazine's official YouTube channel.

In January 2015, Bieber was photographed for American *Vogue* and in March for *Teen Vogue*. In April, she shot her first magazine cover for *Jalouse* magazine alongside male model Lucky Blue Smith. In the same month she was involved in two further cover-shoots, for the Dutch edition of *L'Officiel* and the American edition of *Wonderland* magazine and was also pictured in editorials for *Miss Vogue* and *W* magazines. In July 2015, she was featured in Ralph Lauren advertising alongside Australian singer Cody Simpson, and in October returned to the runway for Tommy Hilfiger and Philipp Plein.

In January 2016, Bieber appeared in a Ralph Lauren campaign and shot an editorial for the Korean edition of *Vogue*. After walking again for Tommy Hilfiger in February, Bieber featured in spring/summer campaigns for Philipp Plein and Tommy Hilfiger. In the same period she was also shot for *Self* magazine and filmed for a commercial of clothing brand *H\&M*, which was released in the Coachella Music Festival period in April. In March 2016, Bieber signed a contract with high-profile New York modeling agency IMG Models and in May appeared on the cover of *Marie Claire*, who described her as a "fresh face". The American cover was also released as the July cover of the Dutch edition of Marie Claire. In June, Bieber walked for Moschino alongside high-profile supermodels such as Miranda Kerr, Alessandra Ambrosio, Jourdan Dunn and Chanel Iman and in the same month she also made her debut in advertising for Guess.

During the summer of 2016, Bieber was photographed and filmed for an UGG footwear campaign, alongside supermodel Rosie Huntington-Whiteley. Along with Joan Smalls, Bieber was also the face of Karl Lagerfeld's limited-edition North American clothing line entitled "Love from Paris". Bieber also appeared in editorials for *Glamour Magazine* and *Italian Vogue*. In September, she took part in New York Fashion Week, walking for Tommy Hilfiger, Prabal Gurung, Jeremy Scott, Tory Burch and Matty Bovan. In London she made a personal appearance at a pre-London Fashion Week party at Stradivarius where she provided social media presence via selfies and tweets. She then walked for Julien Macdonald in LFW. During Milan Fashion Week Bieber walked for Dolce \& Gabbana and in Paris Fashion Week she walked for Elie Saab. Bieber also appeared in advertising for Prabal Gurung Sport. Later that year she featured in campaigns for Guess' holiday collection and Australian label Sass \& bide. In November 2016, Bieber was on the cover of the Australian edition of *Harper's Bazaar*, and featured in a French Elle editorial.

In 2017, Bieber was featured on the cover of Spanish *Harper's Bazaar* alongside male model Jon Kortajarena and the British edition of Elle. Bieber also appeared in the promotion video for the Fyre Festival. She has since then stated that the money went towards charity. Bieber appeared in the March 2018 issue of US *Elle*. In September 2018, Bieber became a face of the Power of Good campaign for the Shiseido-owned make-up brand bareMinerals.

Bieber became the face of Levi Jeans in 2019\.

### Other ventures

In 2005, then aged nine, Bieber appeared alongside her family in the television documentary *Livin It: Unusual Suspects*, and in 2009, she made an appearance in an episode of the TV show *Saturday Night Live* by the side of her uncle Alec Baldwin. In 2011, she appeared as Australian singer Cody Simpson's love interest in the music video of the song "On My Mind" as part of her early work and several years later, in 2016, she had a role in a second music video, "Love to Love You Baby" by French model and singer Baptiste Giabiconi, a cover of the Donna Summer song released in 1975\.

On October 25, 2015, Bieber worked as a TV host in a segment of the 2015 MTV Europe Music Awards in Milan, Italy. Alongside Italian supermodel Bianca Balti and English rapper Tinie Tempah she revealed the winners of the Best Music Video Award, were Macklemore and Ryan Lewis for the video of their song "Downtown". On June 19, 2016, she co-hosted with model Gigi Hadid announcing a live exhibition by Shawn Mendes at the 2016 iHeartRadio Much Music Video Awards in Toronto, Canada.

Beginning on May 2, 2017, Bieber began hosting a new TBS show *Drop the Mic* with rapper Method Man, featuring four celebrities facing off in a series of rap battles. As of 2020, the show had been broadcast for two seasons but had yet to be renewed or cancelled for season three.

In 2016, Bieber collaborated with clothing brand The Daily Edited, promoting a handbag capsule collection labeled as \#theHAILEYedited collection. In the same year, she announced a collaboration with UK footwear brand Public Desire using the hashtag \#PDxHB, and announced she would be launching her own make-up collection produced by Australian brand ModelCo.

In 2018, Bieber applied for and received a trademark on her name "Hailey Bieber" for commercial purposes.

On June 15, 2022, Bieber launched a skincare brand, called Rhode, after her middle name.

Personal life
-------------

Bieber's first career aspiration was to become a professional classical ballet dancer, but her training ended due to a foot injury.

Bieber was linked to Shawn Mendes in 2018, with the two making their first public appearance together that May at the Met Gala.

Hailey and Justin Bieber briefly dated from December 2015 to January 2016 before splitting, then reconciled in June 2018\. The couple got engaged in July 2018, and confirmed in November 2018 that they were married. On May 9, 2024, it was announced that Hailey was pregnant with the couple's first child. They announced the birth of their son on August 23, 2024\.

As of 2024, Bieber primarily resides with her husband Justin in La Quinta, California, previously having lived in their lakefront property in Cambridge, Ontario in Canada. The Biebers held a second wedding ceremony in South Carolina on September 30, 2019\.

Bieber was raised as an evangelical Christian and attends Churchome, the same nondenominational church attended by her husband. On World Mental Health Day 2020, she endorsed Joe Biden for the United States presidential election. She had initially endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders for the Democratic nomination during the party's primaries in 2020\.

In addition to English, Bieber speaks some Portuguese as the maternal side of her family is Brazilian.

Bieber supports abortion rights, describing the overturning of Roe v. Wade as "an extreme loss and disappointment. This is really really scary." In May 2022, Bieber appeared alongside almost 160 other celebrities in a "Bans Off Our Bodies" full-page advertisement in the *New York Times* advocating for reproductive rights.

### Health

On March 10, 2022, Bieber was hospitalized with stroke-like symptoms. She was discharged the following day. In a 12-minute video she posted on her YouTube channel, she revealed she had suffered from a transient ischemic attack, caused by a patent foramen ovale and had surgery to repair the heart defect.

In November 2022, she stated that she had an ovarian cyst "the size of an apple" on her ovary and she had had such cysts "a few times".

On April 20, 2023, Bieber issued a statement about her mental health in which she revealed that she had been "fragile" since the beginning of the year after dealing with online rumors of an alleged feud between her and pop-singer Selena Gomez sparked controversy over social media.

Filmography
-----------

### Television

| Year | Title | Role | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2005 | *Livin It: Unusual Suspects* | Herself | Documentary movie |
| 2009 | *Saturday Night Live* | Episode: "Alec Baldwin/Jonas Brothers" |
| 2015 | *Secrets of New York Fashion Week* | Documentary movie |
| 2017–2019 | *Drop the Mic* | Herself (co-host) | Musical Reality Competition TV Series |
| 2018 | 2018 iHeartRadio Music Awards | Special |
| 2018 | The American Meme | Herself | Documentary Film |
| 2021 | *Dave* | TV series, cameo |
| 2023 | *A Very Demi Holiday Special* | Television special |

### Music videos

| Year | Title | Artist | Role | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2011 | "On My Mind" | Cody Simpson | Love interest |  |
| 2016 | "Love to Love You Baby" | Baptiste Giabiconi | Girl |  |
| 2019 | "10,000 Hours" | Dan \+ Shay and Justin Bieber | Herself |  |
| 2020 | "Stuck with U" | Ariana Grande and Justin Bieber |  |
| "PopStar" | DJ Khaled, Drake |  |

Awards and nominations
----------------------

| Year | Association | Category | Result | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2016 | Teen Choice Awards | Choice Female Hottie | Nominated |  |
| Choice Model | Nominated |  |
| 2017 | Nominated |  |
| 2018 | Choice TV Personality | Nominated |  |
| Choice Female Hottie | Nominated |