# Michael Richards

| Michael Richards | |
| --- | --- |
| Richards at the 45th Primetime Emmy Awards on September 19, 1993 | |
| Born | Michael Anthony Richards (1949-07-24) July 24, 1949 (age 75\)Culver City, California, U.S. |
| Alma mater | Los Angeles Valley CollegeCalifornia Institute of the ArtsEvergreen State College (BA) |
| Occupation(s) | Actor, comedian |
| Years active | 1979–2007 (stand up) 1980–present (acting) |
| Spouses | * Cathleen Lyons ​ ​(m. 1974; div. 1993\)​ * Beth Skipp ​(m. 2010\)​ |
| Children | 2 |
|  | |
| Military career | |
| Allegiance | United States |
| Service / branch | U.S. Army |
| Years of service | 1970–1972 |
|  | |

* Cathleen Lyons
​ ​(m. 1974; div. 1993\)​
* Beth Skipp ​(m. 2010\)​

**Michael Anthony Richards** (born July 24, 1949\) is an American actor and former stand-up comedian. He achieved global recognition for starring as Cosmo Kramer on the NBC television sitcom *Seinfeld* from 1989 to 1998\. He began his career as a stand-up comedian, first entering the national spotlight when he was featured on Billy Crystal's first cable TV special, and went on to become a series regular on ABC's *Fridays*.

From 1989 to 1998, he played Cosmo Kramer on *Seinfeld*, three times receiving the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series. During the run of *Seinfeld*, he made a guest appearance in *Mad About You*, reprising his role as Kramer. Richards also made numerous guest appearances on a variety of television shows, such as *Cheers*. His film credits include *So I Married an Axe Murderer*, *Airheads*, *Young Doctors in Love*, *Problem Child*, *Coneheads*, *UHF*, and *Trial and Error*, one of his few starring roles. In 2000, he starred in his own sitcom, *The Michael Richards Show*, which was canceled after only two months. 

In 2006, Richards was filmed going on a racist tirade against hecklers while performing at the Laugh Factory in California. After the tape was obtained and released by TMZ, significant backlash and media coverage led to Richards retiring from stand-up in early 2007\. In 2009, he appeared as himself in the seventh season of *Curb Your Enthusiasm* alongside his fellow *Seinfeld* cast members for the first time since the show’s finale. In 2013, he portrayed Frank in the sitcom *Kirstie*, which was canceled after one season. He most recently played Daddy Hogwood in the 2019 romantic comedy *Faith, Hope \& Love*.

Early life
----------

Richards was born in Culver City, California, to a Catholic family. He is the son of Phyllis (née Nardozzi), a medical records librarian. As a child, Richards was told his father was William Richards, an electrical engineer, who died in a car crash when Michael was two. He later learned his mother's pregnancy was the result of a sexual assault and that she considered abortion and adoption before deciding to raise him as a single mother. Richards was also raised by a grandmother who suffered from schizophrenia.

Richards graduated from Thousand Oaks High School. In 1968, he appeared as a contestant on *The Dating Game* but was not chosen for a date. He was drafted into the United States Army in 1970\. He trained as a medic and was stationed in West Germany, where he was a member of a theatrical group called The Training Road Show. He became interested in performing after taking a theatrical class in seventh grade.

After being honorably discharged, Richards used the benefits of the G.I. Bill to enroll in the California Institute of the Arts and earned a Bachelor of Arts in drama from the Evergreen State College in 1975\. He also had a short-lived improv act with Ed Begley Jr. During this period, he enrolled at Los Angeles Valley College and continued to appear in student productions.

Career
------

### 1979–1989: Early career

Richards got his big TV break in 1979, appearing in Billy Crystal's first cable TV special. In 1980, he began as one of the cast members on ABC's *Fridays* television show, where Larry David was a fellow cast member and writer. It included a famous instance in which Andy Kaufman refused to deliver his scripted lines, leading Richards to bring the cue cards on screen to Kaufman, who responded by throwing his drink into Richards' face, causing a small riot (Richards later claimed he was in on the joke). The film *Man on the Moon* featured a re-enactment of the Andy Kaufman incident where Richards was portrayed by actor Norm Macdonald.

In 1981, he appeared in the *It's a Living* episode "Desperate Hours". In 1986, Richards had a minor role in the cult satirical TV miniseries *Fresno*, playing one of a pair of inept criminal henchmen. That same year he auditioned to play Al Bundy in the TV series *Married... with Children*, but he was passed over for Ed O'Neill. In 1989, Richards had a supporting role in "Weird Al" Yankovic's comedy film *UHF* as janitor Stanley Spadowski. On television, he appeared in *Miami Vice* as an unscrupulous bookie; in *St. Elsewhere* as a television producer making a documentary about Dr. Mark Craig; in *Cheers* as a character trying to collect on an old bet with Sam Malone; and made several guest appearances with Jay Leno as an accident-prone fitness expert.

According to an interview with executive producer David Hoberman, ABC first conceived the series *Monk* as a procedural police comedy with an Inspector Clouseau-like character suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder. Hoberman said ABC wanted Richards to play Adrian Monk, but he turned it down.

### 1989–2005: *Seinfeld* and rise to prominence

In 1989, Richards was cast as Cosmo Kramer in the NBC television series *Seinfeld*, created by fellow *Fridays* cast member Larry David and comedian Jerry Seinfeld. Although it got off to a slow start, by the mid-1990s it had become one of the most popular sitcoms in television history. It ended its nine-year run in 1998 at No. 1 in the Nielsen ratings. In *Seinfeld*, Kramer is the neighbor across the hall of the show's eponymous character, and is usually referred to only by his last name. His first name, Cosmo, was revealed in the sixth-season episode "The Switch".

Richards won more Emmys than any other *Seinfeld* cast member, taking home the award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series in 1993, 1994, and 1997 for his role as Kramer. When referring to speculation that he would launch a spin-off to *Seinfeld* about Kramer, Richards said he was not interested in doing so. During the run of *Seinfeld*, Richards made cameo appearances in several TV shows; he played himself in Episode 2 of Season 1 "The Flirt Episode" (1992\) of the HBO series *The Larry Sanders Show*. He also had a cameo role in the comedy thriller film *So I Married an Axe Murderer*, credited as "insensitive man". In 1996, Richards made a cameo in Epcot's Ellen's Energy Adventure, where he portrayed a caveman discovering fire. He played radio station employee Doug Beech in *Airheads*, and co-starred with Jeff Daniels as an actor pretending to be a lawyer in 1997's *Trial and Error*. He also made guest appearances on *Miami Vice*, *Night Court* and *Cheers*.

In 2000, two years after the end of *Seinfeld*, Richards began work on a new series for NBC, his first major project since *Seinfeld*'s finale. *The Michael Richards Show*, for which Richards received co-writer and co-executive producer credits, was conceived as a comedy/mystery starring Richards as a bumbling private investigator. When the first pilot failed with test audiences, NBC ordered that the show be retooled into a more conventional, office-based sitcom before its premiere. After a few weeks of poor ratings and negative reviews, it was canceled. Critics said the show was too "Kramer-esque" and Richards invoked the so-called "Seinfeld curse" as to why the show failed.

Starting in 2004, he and his fellow *Seinfeld* cast members provided interviews and audio commentaries for the *Seinfeld* DVDs. Richards stepped down from providing audio commentary after Season 5, though he continued to provide interviews.

### 2006–2012: Laugh Factory incident and aftermath

During a performance on November 17, 2006, at the Laugh Factory in Hollywood, California, Richards launched into a racist rant in response to repeated heckling and interruptions from a small group of Black and Hispanic audience members. Richards was recorded shouting "He's a nigger!" several times and making references to lynching and the Jim Crow laws. Kyle Doss, a member of the group that Richards addressed, said the group had arrived in the middle of the performance and were "being a little loud." According to Doss:

\[Richards] said, "Look at the stupid Mexicans and blacks being loud up there." That's the first thing he said. And then he kept on with his bit. And, then, after a while, I told him, "My friend doesn't think you're funny." And then when I told him that, that's when he flipped me off and said, "F-you N-word." And that's how it all started.

The incident remained unknown to the larger public for three days until a cellphone video filmed by a member of the audience was obtained and released by TMZ. On November 20, after the video made rounds around the news, Jerry Seinfeld invited Richards to appear via satellite during a broadcast of the *Late Show with David Letterman*, where Richards was recorded saying: "I'm not doing too good. I lost my temper on stage; I was at a comedy club trying to do my act and I got heckled and I took it badly and went into a rage. And, uh, said some pretty, uh, nasty things to some Afro-Americans." Many studio audience members laughed as Richards began his unscripted explanation and apology, thinking it was a bit, leading Seinfeld to reprimand them, saying: "Stop laughing. It's not funny." Richards said he had been trying to defuse the heckling by being even more outrageous, but it had backfired. He later called civil rights leaders Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson to apologize. He also appeared as a guest on Jackson's syndicated radio show. Doss stated that he did not accept Richards's apology, saying: "If he wanted to apologize, he could have contacted ... one of us out of the group. But, he didn't. He apologized on-camera just because the tape got out."

Richards popularity among the general public declined after the tape was released. A Gallup poll conducted in late November found that only 41 percent of Americans still held a favorable view of Richards; by contrast, other *Seinfeld* cast members' favorability ratings were in the 70s and 80s. The same poll also found that 45 percent of non-whites expressed a negative view of Richards due to the incident. The incident was parodied on several TV shows, including *Mad TV*, *Family Guy*, *South Park*, *Extras*, and *Monday Night Raw*. In the ninth episode of the seventh season of *Curb Your Enthusiasm*, Richards appeared as himself and poked fun at the incident. In 2008, rapper Wale referenced the incident and used recordings of the incident, as well as Richard's apology, in the song "The Kramer" on *The Mixtape About Nothing* album.

One year following the incident, Richards voiced character Bud Ditchwater in the animated film *Bee Movie*, which starred and was produced by Jerry Seinfeld. In 2009, Richards and the other main *Seinfeld* cast members appeared in the seventh season of *Curb Your Enthusiasm*. In 2012, he appeared in the comedy web series *Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee*, hosted by Seinfeld, in which he remarked on the 2006 incident. In the episode, Richards explained that the outburst still haunted him, and was a major reason for his retirement from stand-up.

### 2013–present: Recent years

In 2013, Richards was cast to play Frank in the sitcom *Kirstie*, costarring Kirstie Alley and Rhea Perlman. It premiered on TV Land on December 4, 2013 and was canceled after one season. In 2014, Richards appeared as the president of Crackle in a trailer for Season 5 of *Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee*. Seinfeld said the trailer's storyline would be expanded on in one of the episodes.

In 2019, Richards played Daddy Hogwood in the romantic comedy *Faith, Hope \& Love* starring Peta Murgatroyd and Robert Krantz.

In June 2024 Richards released a memoir entitled *Entrances and Exits*.

Personal life
-------------

Richards and his first wife, a family therapist, were married for 18 years. They have one daughter, born 1975\. They separated in 1992 and divorced the following year. Through their daughter, Richards has two grandchildren.

In 2010, Richards married his girlfriend of eight years. They have one son, born 2011\.

Richards is a Freemason.

Richards revealed in his 2024 memoir *Entrances and Exits* that he survived stage 1 prostate cancer in 2018 via a surgical removal of his entire prostate.

Filmography
-----------

### Film

| Year | Title | Role | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1982 | *Young Doctors in Love* | Malamud Callahan |  |
| 1984 | *The House of God* | Dr. Pinkus |  |
| *The Ratings Game* | Sal |  |
| 1985 | *Transylvania 6-5000* | Fejos |  |
| 1986 | *Whoops Apocalypse* | Lacrobat |  |
| 1987 | *Choice Chance and Control* | Victor Loudon | Driver's Ed video |
| 1989 | *UHF* | Stanley Spadowski |  |
| 1990 | *Problem Child* | Martin Beck |  |
| 1993 | *Coneheads* | Motel Clerk |  |
| *So I Married an Axe Murderer* | Insensitive Man |  |
| 1994 | *Airheads* | Doug Beech |  |
| 1995 | *Unstrung Heroes* | Danny Lidz |  |
| 1997 | *Redux Riding Hood* | The Wolf | Voice; Short film |
| *Trial and Error* | Richard "Ricky" Rietti |  |
| 2007 | *Bee Movie* | Bud Ditchwater | Voice |
| 2013 | *Walk the Light* | Lester | Short film |
| 2019 | *Faith, Hope \& Love* | Daddy Hogwood |  |

### Television

| Year | Title | Role | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1980–1982 | *Fridays* | Various roles | 54 episodes; also writer |
| 1982 | *Faerie Tale Theatre* | King Geoffeey | Episode: "The Tale of the Frog Prince" |
| 1983 | *Herndon* | Dr. Herndon P. Stool | Television film |
| 1984 | *Faerie Tale Theatre* | Vince | Episode: "Pinocchio" |
| *At Your Service* | Rick the gardener | Television film |
| *Night Court* | Eugene Sleighbough | Episode: "Take My Wife, Please" |
| *The Ratings Game* | Sal | Television film |
| 1984–1985 | *St. Elsewhere* | Bill Wolf | 5 episodes |
| 1985 | *Tall Tales \& Legends* | Sneaky Pete | Episode: "My Darlin' Clementine" |
| *Cheers* | Eddie Gordon | Episode: "Bar Bet" |
| *Scarecrow and Mrs. King* | Petronus | Episode: "Car Wars" |
| *Slickers* | Mike Blade | Television film |
| *It's a Living* | Hager | Episode: "Desperate Hours" |
| *Hill Street Blues* | Special Agent Durpe | Episode: "An Oy for an Oy" |
| 1986 | *Miami Vice* | Pagone | Episode: "The Fix" |
| *A Year in the Life* | Ronnie | 3 episodes |
| *Fresno* | 2nd henchman | 5 episodes |
| 1987 | *Jonathan Winters: On the Ledge* | Various roles | Television special |
| 1987–1988 | *Marblehead Manor* | Rick | 11 episodes |
| 1989 | *Camp MTV* | Stanley Spadowski | Television film |
| 1989–1998 | *Seinfeld* | Cosmo Kramer | 178 episodes |
| 1992 | *Dinosaurs* | Director | VoiceEpisode: "Wesayso Knows Best" |
| *Mad About You* | Cosmo Kramer | Episode: "The Apartment" |
| *The Larry Sanders Show* | Himself | Episode: "The Flirt Episode" |
| 1996 | *London Suite* | Mark Ferris | Television film |
| 2000 | *David Copperfield* | Mr. Wilkins Micawber | Television film |
| *The Michael Richards Show* | Vic Nardozza | 7 episodes; also co-creator, writer, and executive producer |
| 2009 | *Curb Your Enthusiasm* | Michael Richards | 3 episodes |
| 2012–2014 | *Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee* | Himself / Dick Corcoran | 4 episodes |
| 2013–2014 | *Kirstie* | Frank | 12 episodes |

Awards and nominations
----------------------

| Year | Association | Category | Performance | Result | Ref. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1995 | American Comedy Awards | Funniest Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture | *Unstrung Heroes* | Nominated |  |
| 1995 | Funniest Supporting Male in a Television Series | *Seinfeld* | Nominated |  |
| 1996 | Funniest Supporting Male in a Television Series | Nominated |  |
| 1993 | Primetime Emmy Awards | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Junior Mint" \+ "The Watch") | Won |  |
| 1994 | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Sniffing Accountant" \+ "The Opposite") | Won |  |
| 1995 | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Jimmy" \+ "The Fusilli Jerry") | Nominated |  |
| 1996 | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Pool Guy" \+ "The Wait Out") | Nominated |  |
| 1997 | Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (episode: "The Chicken Roaster") | Won |  |
| 1997 | Satellite Award | Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy | *Seinfeld* | Nominated |  |
| 1994 | Screen Actors Guild Awards | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (season 6\) | Won |  |
| 1995 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (season 7\) | Nominated |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |
| 1996 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (season 8\) | Nominated |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |
| 1997 | Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series | *Seinfeld*  (season 9\) | Won |  |
| Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series | Nominated |

Bibliography
------------

* Richards, Michael (June 4, 2024\). *Entrances and Exits*. Permuted Press. ISBN 978-1637589137\.