# Edge of Seventeen

| "Edge of Seventeen" | |
| --- | --- |
| Promotional song poster | |
| Single by Stevie Nicks | |
| from the album  *Bella Donna* | |
| B-side | "Edge of Seventeen" (Previously unreleased live version) |
| Released | February 4, 1982 |
| Recorded | 1981 |
| Genre | Rock, hard rock |
| Length | 5:28 (album version)4:28 (single version) |
| Label | Modern |
| Songwriter(s) | Stevie Nicks |
| Producer(s) | Jimmy Iovine |
| Stevie Nicks singles chronology | |
| | "Leather and Lace" (1981\) | "**Edge of Seventeen**" (1982\) | "After the Glitter Fades" (1982\) | | --- | --- | --- | | |

| "Leather and Lace" (1981\) | "**Edge of Seventeen**" (1982\) | "After the Glitter Fades" (1982\) |
| --- | --- | --- |

"**Edge of Seventeen**" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Stevie Nicks from her debut solo studio album *Bella Donna* (1981\), released as the third single from the album on February 4, 1982\. The lyrics were written by Nicks to express the grief resulting from the death of her uncle Jonathan and the murder of John Lennon during the same week of December 1980\. The song features a distinctive, chugging 16th-note guitar riff, drum beat and a simple chord structure typical of Nicks' songs. The song's title for the single release was "**Edge of Seventeen (Just Like the White Winged Dove)**". In the United States, "Edge of Seventeen" just missed out on the top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at No. 11\. Despite this, it became one of Nicks' most enduring and recognizable songs and has been covered by several artists. In 2021, it was ranked No. 217 on Rolling Stone's list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time".

Background and inspiration
--------------------------

According to Nicks, the title came from a conversation she had with Tom Petty's first wife, Jane, about the couple's first meeting. Jane said they met "at the age of seventeen", but Jane's strong Southern accent made it sound like "edge of seventeen" to Nicks. She liked the sound of the phrase so much that she told Jane she would write a song for it and give her credit for the inspiration.

Although Nicks had originally planned to use the title for a song about Tom and Jane Petty, the death of her uncle Jonathan and the murder of John Lennon during the same week of December 1980 inspired a new song for which Nicks used the title. Nicks' producer and lover Jimmy Iovine was a close friend of Lennon, and Nicks felt helpless to comfort him. Soon after, Nicks flew home to Phoenix, Arizona, to be with her uncle Jonathan, who was dying of cancer. She remained with her uncle and his family until his death.

Nicks had never actually heard a dove's call before, as she revealed in 2020 when she had only just heard it recently. The opening lyrics were inspired by a menu she was reading at a Phoenix restaurant in 1980, which said, "The white wing dove sings a song that sounds like she’s singing ooh, ooh, ooh. She makes her home here in the great Saguaro cactus that provides shelter and protection for her…".

Composition and lyrics
----------------------

As is typical of Nicks' songs, the lyrics are highly symbolic. Nicks has said that the white-winged dove represents the spirit leaving the body on death, and some of the verses capture her experience of the days leading up to her uncle Jonathan's death.

Throughout the song, a distinctive 16th note guitar riff is played by Waddy Wachtel, progressing through C, D, and E-minor chords. During the bridge, the chords alternate twice between E-minor and C. Nicks's backing band recommended that they emulate The Police's "Bring On the Night" for the guitar riff, although Wachtel was unfamiliar with the song.

"I had never heard "Bring On the Night," and at that session they told me they were going to do this song based on this feel. I had heard something about the Police, but I didn't know what they were talking about. Then about two years ago, I had the radio on, and on comes what sounds like "Edge of Seventeen" – and all of a sudden, there's Sting's voice! I thought, 'We ripped them off completely!' I called Stevie that night and said, 'Listen to me, don't ever do that again!'"

Reception
---------

*Record World* praised the song for its "powerful lyrics, a percolating rhythm section and Stevie's throaty vocal." Author Zoe Howe has described the song as being about "transforming and elevating the feelings of grief and soaring above them with strength" and being "a perfect combination of tough rock 'n' roll grit, raw emotion and full-beam, strut-about-in-platform-boots rock queen glamour."

The song is a favourite among Nicks' fanbase.

Chart performance
-----------------

"Edge of Seventeen" peaked at No. 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 for two weeks in April 1982\. The live version on the B-side reached No. 26 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock chart. The original album version of the song had previously made the top five of *Billboard*'s Mainstream Rock chart in 1981, peaking at No. 4\. "Edge of Seventeen" also peaked at No. 11 on the *RPM* Top 100 Singles chart in Canada.

The song was also covered on season 9 of *The Voice* by Amanda Ayala and Shelby Brown. Their cover entered the top 100 of the iTunes rock chart.

The song entered the UK chart in 2021 following its use in a John Lewis commercial.

Track listing and formats
-------------------------

* **US 7" vinyl single**

1. "Edge of Seventeen (Just Like the White Winged Dove)"  – 4:28\[*citation needed*]
2. "Edge of Seventeen" (Previously unreleased live version)  – 5:57

Personnel
---------

**Musicians**

* Stevie Nicks – lead vocals, writer
* Waddy Wachtel – guitar
* Bob Glaub – bass guitar
* Russ Kunkel – drums
* Bobbye Hall – percussion
* Benmont Tench – organ
* Roy Bittan – piano
* Lori Perry – backing vocals
* Sharon Celani – backing vocals

**Production**

* Jimmy Iovine – producer

Charts
------

### Weekly charts

| Chart (1981–1983\) | Peakposition |
| --- | --- |
| Canada Top Singles (*RPM*) | 11 |
| US Billboard Hot 100 | 11 |
| US Mainstream Rock (*Billboard*) | 4 |
| US *Cash Box* Top 100 | 19 |

| Chart (2021\) | Peakposition |
| --- | --- |
| UK Singles (OCC) | 86 |

### Year-end charts

| Chart (1982\) | Rank |
| --- | --- |
| US *Billboard* Hot 100 | 100 |

Certifications
--------------

| Region | Certification | Certified units/sales |
| --- | --- | --- |
| United Kingdom (BPI) | 2× Platinum | 1,200,000‡ |
| ‡ Sales\+streaming figures based on certification alone. | | |

‡ Sales\+streaming figures based on certification alone.

Covers
------

* The distinctive riff from the song was sampled by the American girl group Destiny's Child in their 2001 hit single "Bootylicious", with Nicks making a cameo appearance in the accompanying music video.
* Lindsay Lohan released a version of "Edge of Seventeen" on her second studio album *A Little More Personal (Raw)* (2005\).
* In 2020, Miley Cyrus interpolated the song for her single "Midnight Sky", which was later remixed as a mashup featuring Nicks titled "Edge of Midnight".
* In 2022, American DJ and record producer Wuki released a remixed version of the track. This version was certified gold in Australia in 2024\.

Use in soundtracks
------------------

The song was used in the TV series *The Crown*.