# Dr. Phillips High School

| Dr. Phillips High School | |
| --- | --- |
|  | |
| Address | |
|  | |
| 6500 Turkey Lake RoadOrlando, Florida 32819United States | |
| Coordinates | 28°28′12″N 81°28′39″W﻿ / ﻿28\.47000°N 81\.47750°W﻿ / 28\.47000; -81\.47750 |
| Information | |
| Type | Public |
| Motto | "Never less than the best!" |
| Established | 1987 |
| School district | Orange County Public Schools |
| Principal | Jackie Ramsey |
| Teaching staff | 135\.00 (on an FTE basis) |
| Enrollment | 3,202 (2022–23\) |
| Student to teacher ratio | 23\.72 |
| Hours in school day | 7 hours |
| Color(s) | Navy Blue  Carolina Blue |
| Mascot | Florida panther |
| Team name | Panthers |
| Newspaper | *The Panther Post* |
| Yearbook | *Panther* |
| Website | www.dphs.ocps.net |

**Dr. Phillips High School** is a public high school in Dr. Phillips, Florida, United States, near Orlando.

It serves the Dr. Phillips census-designated place (CDP), the Bay Hill CDP, and the residential portion of Lake Buena Vista.

History
-------

Dr. Phillips High School opened in fall of 1987 and was built for about 2,500 students in the Dr. Phillips area of southwest Orange County, Florida.

The campus sits on 55 acres (220,000 m2) in the Orlando city limits and unincorporated Orange County, opposite Universal Orlando. The school serves as a Visual and Performing Arts Magnet and Center for International Studies magnet for Orange County Public Schools.

The school's first principal, Bill Spoone, went on to be elected to the Orange County School Board. The football stadium is named after him. The school's gymnasium is named after its second principal, Larry Payne, and is nicknamed "The House of Payne."

The school opened with enrollment above capacity and began using portable classrooms on the North Campus, formerly known as the 9th Grade Center. Due to overflow from main campus, many non-freshman classes were moved into additional portable classrooms at the 9th Grade Center, which was renamed North Campus, with the main campus renamed the South Campus. Portable classrooms are still used on the North Campus and are primarily for freshman-level classes.\[*citation needed*]

Since the 2022-2023 school year, most of the portables have been shut down, due to the aging conditions and the possibility of a future renovation. In October 2024, construction workers began to destroy or transport the portables, and most of the area is now rubble and construction sand. As of December 2024, only around eight portables currently remain, awaiting to be destroyed or transported.\[*citation needed*]

As of the 2014–15 school year the school had 3,641 students, of whom 35% were white, 32% African American, 24% Hispanic, 7% Asian, and 2% multiracial.

The school underwent a series of renovations which finished in 2015\. A new building has been added, along with new VPA classrooms on the South Campus.

Athletics
---------

The press box at Bill Spoone Stadium is dedicated to Mike Murray, "The Voice of the Panthers" since the school opened its doors in 1987\. A full-time employee of a large aerospace contractor and not formally employed by the school, Murray was elected to their Athletic Hall of Fame in 2001\.

The school's baseball facility is John Barbati Field. In 1992, the baseball facilities were completely renovated with a state of the art press box, team office and facilities. The new facilities were designed and constructed by William P. Riegert, CEO of Cox Associates, Architects, and donated to the OC School Board in a dedication ceremony on February 22, 1992\. Accepting for the OC School Board were Assistant Superintendent Dave Wofford, Assistant Superintendent Dave Sojourner, Superintendent Don Shaw, Bill Spoone, and Bill Thompson. Today the Press Box is dedicated to Scott Muhlhann, a baseball player and 1992 school valedictorian who died of cancer in 1998\.

The mascot for Dr. Phillips is the Panther; specifically, the Florida panther. They have many sports including lacrosse, football, baseball, golf, basketball and swimming. The Panthers have won FHSAA state championships in the following sports:

* Football (2017\)
* Baseball (1996\)
* Men's Basketball (2021\)
* Women's Basketball (1992, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2022, 2023, 2024\)
* Men's Golf (1990, 1991, 1997, 1999\)
* Women's Golf (1993, 1994\)
* Men's Swimming \& Diving (1995\)
* Women's Swimming \& Diving (1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998\)
* Competitive Cheerleading (2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2020\)
* Women's Flag Football (2011\)

Athletic program accomplishments:

* FHSAA State All-Sports Award - 2012-13
* FHSAA State All-Sports Award - 2010-11
* FHSAA State All-Sports Award - 1998-99\[*citation needed*]
* FHSAA State All-Sports Award - 1995-96\[*citation needed*]

Notable alumni
--------------

|  | This section **needs additional citations for verification**. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. *(December 2012)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- | --- |

* Madison Anderson, model, Miss Universe 2019 runner up
* Darren Barnet, actor
* Wayne Brady, actor
* Mekia Cox, actress
* Ashley Eckstein, actress
* Joey Fatone, singer for the group \*NSYNC
* Luis Fonsi, singer, Grammy award winner
* Eddie Huang, writer, director, restaurateur
* DJ Khaled, producer, DJ
* Matt Lauria, actor
* Scooter Magruder, YouTube personality
* Brit Marling, actress
* Bobby Olszewski, former member of the Florida House of Representatives, R-44
* Valery Ortiz, actress
* Rene Plasencia, Member of the Florida House of Representatives, R-50 
* Jean Rodríguez, Latin singer, songwriter, producer, and the brother of Luis Fonsi
* Michael James Scott, broadway actor
* Amanda Seales, actress
* Wesley Taylor, Broadway actor
* Hotboii, rapper\*
* Sean O'Neal, actor on Clarissa Explains It All

### Athletes

* Joshua Salter, Playmakers Flag Football star
* Brian Barber, MLB player
* Braniff Bonaventure, Arena Football League player
* Ike Charlton, CFL player
* Ha Ha Clinton-Dix, NFL free safety
* Johnny Damon, MLB outfielder, Dancing With The Stars contestant
* Robert Damron, professional golfer
* Doug Gabriel, NFL and UFL player
* Trey Griffey, NFL wide receiver
* Dee Hart, *USA Today* High School All-American (2010\)
* Riley Kugel, basketball player
* Shane Larkin, NBA basketball player
* Kenny Layne, professional wrestler
* Oliver Marmol, MLB baseball manager
* Dan Miceli, MLB pitcher
* Matt Milano, NFL linebacker
* Marcell Harris, NFL safety
* A. J. Pierzynski, MLB catcher
* Kona Reeves, professional wrestler
* Mark Ruiz, member of US Olympic diving team at 2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics
* Kenny Shaw, professional football player
* Ty Tryon, professional golfer
* Ernest Udeh Jr., basketball player
* Chris Warren, basketball player
* Damien Wilkins, NBA basketball player
* Ray Willis, basketball player