# Dismal Euphony

|  | This article **needs additional citations for verification**. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.*Find sources:* "Dismal Euphony" – news **·** newspapers **·** books **·** scholar **·** JSTOR *(May 2010)* *(Learn how and when to remove this message)* |
| --- | --- |

| Dismal Euphony | |
| --- | --- |
| Origin | Stavanger, Norway |
| Genres | Symphonic black metalGothic metal |
| Years active | 1994–2001 |
| Labels | Nuclear Blast, Napalm |
|  | |
| Past members | See below |

**Dismal Euphony** was a metal band from Norway that mixed styles including gothic metal, melodic metal, black metal and classical music.

History
-------

The history of Dismal Euphony began in 1992 in Stavanger, Norway by bassist Ole K. Helgesen and drummer Kristoffer Vold Austrheim under the name The Headless Children, a cover band of Slayer and Kreator. A year later singer Erik Borgen and guitarist Kenneth Bergsagel joined the group.

They changed the name to Carnal Tomb, then Borgen left the band and Helgesen became the singer/bassist with the female voice of Linn Achre Tveit (Keltziva). Elin Overskott joined the band as a keyboard player.

This was the first line-up of Dismal Euphony, officially formed in 1995\. In the same year, the group composed the demo *Spellbound*. After this publication, they were signed by Napalm Records. Here they produced other albums like *Soria Moria slott*, *Autumn Leaves: The Rebellion of Tides* and the *Lady Ablaze* EP (which already features Anja Natasha as female singer).

Later, Dismal Euphony joined Nuclear Blast and released *All Little Devils*, with the new female singer Anja Natasha.

Their last album is *Python Zero*. After this release the band split up.

Band members
------------

### Last known line-up

* Ole Helgesen – bass, vocals
* Kristoffer Vold (a.k.a. Kristoffer Austrheim) – drums; also occasional guitars, bass and electronics
* Frode Clausen – guitars
* Svenn-Aksel Henriksen – keyboards
* Anja Natasha – vocals

### Former members

* Dag Achre Tveit – bass
* Kenneth Bergsagel – guitars
* Elin Overskott – keyboards (1994–1998\)
* Erik Borgen – vocals (1994\)
* Linn Achre Tveit – vocals (1994–1998\)

Discography
-----------

* *Spellbound* (demo, 1995\)
* *Dismal Euphony* (EP, 1996\)
* *Soria Moria slott* (1996\)
* *Autumn Leaves: The Rebellion of Tides* (1997\)
* *All Little Devils* (1999\)
* *Lady Ablaze* (EP, 2000\)
* *Lady Ablaze* (video/VHS, 2000\)
* *Python Zero* (2001\)

| Authority control databases | |
| --- | --- |
| International | * ISNI * VIAF |
| National | * Germany * France * BnF data * Norway |
| Artists | * MusicBrainz |

* ISNI
* VIAF

* Germany
* France
* BnF data
* Norway

* MusicBrainz